1:25:47 PM +
(Connected) +
1:25:55 PM +
(You joined the channel) +
1:49:40 PM phudgins mlemay: how do I make you @mlemay ? +
1:50:28 PM mlemay I don't have the bot in yet +
1:50:36 PM mlemay I asked andrew too late +
1:50:42 PM mlemay it'S ok +
1:53:06 PM mlemay so paul.. any initial thoughts +
1:53:16 PM mlemay guess no one else wanted to join in +
1:53:24 PM mlemay to the meeting +
1:53:32 PM phudgins it's not 14:00 yet +
1:55:49 PM mlemay ahh hok +
1:55:54 PM mlemay I'll wait a bit +
2:02:30 PM mlemay Hi Paul.. .thanks for coming over +
2:02:39 PM mlemay I'll save the log as I don't have meetbot yet +
2:03:44 PM phudgins seems lonely in here +
2:03:49 PM mlemay yea definitely +
2:04:06 PM mlemay do you think people didn't understand the slide
deck? +
2:04:13 PM mlemay I would expect rdvp to be in +
2:04:22 PM phudgins strange that nobody else is interested enough to
attend +
2:04:50 PM phudgins perhaps we should announce it on the opendaylight
now +
2:04:50 PM mlemay it was short noticed +
2:05:04 PM mlemay I'll hold a couple of other call post creation if it
gets approved +
2:05:32 PM mlemay ok will do +
2:07:38 PM +
rhq joined the channel. +
2:07:40 PM phudgins perhaps folks will trickle over now +
2:09:10 PM mlemay hi rhq +
2:09:26 PM phudgins Overall I agree with the need for both a multi-layer
model and a reservation mechanism to provision and deprovision at future
times +
2:10:05 PM phudgins both of these "features" are things we are currently
working on +
2:10:33 PM phudgins so it makes a lot of sense for us to combine our
efforts +
2:11:05 PM mlemay right paul.. just a FYI, (vWAN/DRAC) was based some of
our early work and we're still working with some of your people on that
topic +
2:11:25 PM mlemay #topic Introductions +
2:11:34 PM mlemay I guess I'll start with introduction +
2:11:40 PM mlemay I'm Mathieu Lemay (Inocybe Technologies) +
2:12:01 PM phudgins I'm Paul Hudgins (CIENA) +
2:13:19 PM phudgins rhq will remain anonymous? +
2:14:46 PM mlemay rhq? +
2:16:19 PM phudgins so what's next after introductions? +
2:16:30 PM mlemay right I was about to go forward +
2:16:41 PM mlemay #topic Proposal Introduction +
2:16:50 PM mlemay Did everyone see the slides I sent out +
2:17:04 PM phudgins +1 +
2:17:19 PM mlemay #topic Proposal feedback +
2:17:29 PM mlemay Any initial feedback on prposal before TSC review? +
2:17:55 PM mlemay of course it can change in form but concept will
remain the same if there is no obejction from the community +
2:18:51 PM phudgins I am already a believer that this functionality is
needed in ODL. Will this be the case for the TSC members or will there
need to be more motivation? +
2:19:37 PM mlemay I might hit a wall a bit but I should be able to get
some convinced +
2:19:52 PM mlemay feel free to join in tomorrow on the tsc +
2:20:06 PM phudgins It is on my calendar already +
2:20:07 PM mlemay want to be invoveled in th eprposal? +
2:20:20 PM mlemay resource comitted +
2:21:14 PM phudgins of course I don't have the final say in who gets
"commited" but I don't see why we can't at this point +
2:21:46 PM mlemay for sure and I was told taht can change +
2:22:01 PM mlemay initially thy simply want to get the projects going +
2:22:04 PM phudgins in other words - we will have to reach some
consensus on the implementation before my superiors will commit +
2:22:05 PM mlemay so that we don't miss helieum +
2:22:10 PM mlemay wE'll have design sessions etc +
2:22:13 PM mlemay right after +
2:22:28 PM mlemay works for me +
2:22:39 PM phudgins agreed - so yes, we are committed to begin
discussions +
2:22:40 PM mlemay are you working with people from CTO office? +
2:22:58 PM mlemay had sessions with Michael Ward recently +
2:22:58 PM phudgins yes +
2:23:11 PM mlemay (Also I know Rod Wilson quite well) +
2:23:11 PM rhq I'm Ralph Quapp (ALU) +
2:23:20 PM mlemay hi Ralph +
2:23:23 PM phudgins not recently +
2:23:28 PM phudgins hi Ralph +
2:23:50 PM mlemay did you get a chance to see proposal? +
2:24:01 PM rhq Not yet +
2:25:14 PM mlemay ok +
2:25:25 PM mlemay please have a look and let me know if you would be
interested in the project +
2:25:43 PM mlemay you can catch me on e-mail too if you have questions +
2:25:48 PM mlemay mlemay@inocybe.com +
2:26:59 PM rhq Thanks, at this point only interested as observer +
2:27:55 PM mlemay ok no problems +
2:28:17 PM mlemay anyways the project will form a bit more over the
upcoming days +
2:28:29 PM mlemay as I was mentioning I need to present to TSC +
2:28:41 PM mlemay Paul feeel free to change wiki page for proposal as
you see fit +
2:29:30 PM phudgins this will be the first time through a TSC project
proposal - not sure what to expect +
2:30:48 PM phudgins how tied to the OGF NSI interface do you think will
be desired? +
2:31:20 PM mlemay diddo +
2:31:23 PM mlemay I have two at the same time +
2:31:29 PM mlemay (docs+reservation) +
2:31:29 PM phudgins our marketing folks don't see much interest from
service providers (different story in the R&D community) +
2:31:34 PM mlemay yea +
2:31:36 PM mlemay +1 +
2:32:33 PM phudgins our work is moving towards supporting the ONF
Optical Transport Working Group (OTWG) information model +
2:32:48 PM mlemay yes +
2:32:52 PM mlemay I've seen that too +
2:32:55 PM phudgins which in itself is trying to align with the TMF
model +
2:32:59 PM mlemay should I add that to proposal +
2:33:15 PM mlemay I'm not particulaly fond of NSI +
2:33:24 PM phudgins the ONF is a closed group +
2:33:32 PM mlemay but not really caring about northbound either +
2:34:07 PM mlemay (I didn't join ONF for particular reasons but not
against moving some of these things in here) +
2:34:31 PM phudgins we are utilizing this OTWG model internally, not
just a northbound IF +
2:35:13 PM phudgins let me find out how restrictive the ONF is on this +
2:35:51 PM mlemay ok I still have access to ONF docs (as we created teh
startup Noviflow who are members) +
2:36:07 PM phudgins Another potential negative is that this model is not
mature - still being worked on in the working group +
2:36:23 PM mlemay it might nudge me more in ONF +
2:37:00 PM phudgins access is one thing, making an implementation open
source may be frowned upon +
2:37:06 PM mlemay I was involved in OF pre-ONF and had some concerns on
ONF when it launched +
2:37:29 PM mlemay isn't that the purpose? +
2:37:44 PM mlemay (partially) +
2:38:03 PM mlemay othwersie better jsut use TMF stuff +
2:38:09 PM mlemay or proprietary models +
2:38:12 PM mlemay we have that already +
2:38:46 PM phudgins since they are attempting at aligning, TMF could
always be a fallback +
2:38:50 PM mlemay yea +
2:38:57 PM mlemay works for me +
2:39:06 PM mlemay do you wish me to add some of that to proposal? +
2:39:15 PM mlemay (as exploratory) +
2:39:28 PM mlemay (optional) +
2:39:43 PM phudgins I'll need to have further discussions with our ONF
representatives to ensure we are not crossing any lines +
2:41:34 PM phudgins we can add this as an "intent" with the constraint
of ensuring no legal boundaries are crossed? +
2:47:22 PM mlemay yea +
2:47:24 PM mlemay sure +
2:47:28 PM mlemay will do that +
2:47:39 PM mlemay we can refine all that in our detailed design
meetings +
2:47:43 PM mlemay if you are ok with that +
2:47:53 PM mlemay I just want ot present the need for the "service" +
2:48:14 PM mlemay then we can discuss interfaces / datamodels and
whatnot +
2:48:47 PM phudgins agreed +
2:49:00 PM mlemay perfect thanks alot for your support Paul +
2:49:03 PM mlemay really appreciated +
2:49:20 PM mlemay do you want to schedule a work sessions in the
upcoming days +
2:49:29 PM mlemay or weeks +
2:49:38 PM phudgins always good to not be going alone +
2:50:04 PM phudgins yes - next couple of days would be good +
2:52:41 PM mlemay perfecet +
2:53:08 PM mlemay Please review wiki page and make changes you want +
2:53:25 PM phudgins will do +
2:53:38 PM mlemay any other item to discuss? +
2:56:02 PM phudgins can you post the wiki location here? I can't seem to
find a way to naviagte to it from the main +
2:56:13 PM mlemay ok 1 sec +
2:56:50 PM phudgins found it - #link
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Project_Proposals:Dynamic_Resource_Reservation +
2:56:58 PM mlemay
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Project_Proposals:Dynamic_Resource_Reservation +
2:57:56 PM phudgins my only other concern is whether having multi-layer
and reservation combined may be considered too much for one project? +
3:01:39 PM mlemay hard to seperate +
3:01:56 PM mlemay we'll do it in 2 phases +
3:01:58 PM mlemay (IMO) +
3:02:25 PM mlemay they might want to get it split but hard to allocate
resource dynamically if no multilayer routing +
3:02:41 PM mlemay from my experience +
3:03:05 PM phudgins easy to separate into two projects - but certainly
the reservation system will depend on the multi-layer support +
3:03:07 PM mlemay resource reservation and multilayer routing are
linked +
3:03:22 PM mlemay vice versa +
3:03:54 PM mlemay multilayer depends on resource availability in a given
point in time +
3:04:00 PM mlemay (routing) +
3:05:39 PM phudgins I was separating the work of modeling mutli-layer
aspects from the temporal aspects of reservation +
3:05:52 PM mlemay yes +
3:06:01 PM mlemay I agree but there is codependency +
3:06:13 PM mlemay for end to end solution +
3:06:20 PM mlemay but they are different work items +
3:06:22 PM mlemay but coupled +
3:07:03 PM mlemay go ahead and make changes :) +
3:07:09 PM phudgins we are probably good to go then +
3:08:04 PM mlemay perfect fhanks for everything I,ll follow up +
3:08:10 PM mlemay based off tomorrow's feedback +
3:08:29 PM phudgins ok - I'll be there +
3:08:42 PM mlemay thank I'll adjourn meeting if nothing else
