== Description ==
We have formal project meetings every Monday (PDT)/Tuesday (CST), see below for details. 

Also we gather informally in Ericsson every Thursday around 5PM (PDT) to discuss test matters and we normally open a bridge for more discussion around 6PM (PDT).

== Basic Agenda ==
* Project news
* Tasks progress
* Q&A

== Schedule and Logistics ==

Integration meetings are held weekly every Monday afternoon at 17:00 PM PST (-8:00 GMT) / PDT (-7:00 GMT) or Tuesday morning 9:00 AM / 8:00 AM China Time (+8:00 GMT).

To participate in the next meeting, please refer to the information below:

* Meeting URL:  https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/j.php?MTID=mb5c3869964b2b9ff5db6648ddbfedcd3
* Access Information
** Meeting number: 206 318 145 
** Meeting password: This meeting does not require a password.

* Audio Connection
** Dial into Cisco WebEx (view all Global Access Numbers at http://cisco.com/en/US/about/doing_business/conferencing/index.html 
** Follow the prompts to enter the Meeting Number (listed above) or Access Code followed by the # sign. 

San Jose, CA: +1.408.525.6800 RTP: +1.919.392.3330 
US/Canada: +1.866.432.9903 United Kingdom: +44.20.8824.0117 
India: +91.80.4350.1111 Germany: +49.619.6773.9002 
Japan: +81.3.5763.9394 China: +86.10.8515.5666

== Meeting Minutes ==

=== 4/14/2014 === 
  
* Project news
** Helium release plan is being approved on last TSC call: https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Simultaneous_Release:Helium_Release_Plan
** Stable branch is still pending in Integration. Luis is waiting for other projects to create the branch
** Today OF plugin call was used for bug scrub

* Progress report
** Surekha and Vaishali will work on Sonar and Jacoco for code and test coverage
** Lakshman, Punal are testing the BGP plugin
** After updating VTN coordinator, VTN deploy job does not work anymore. Venkat is looking at it
** Madhusudhan is trying to install mininet with LINC switch. LINC does not support IETF models and so it cannot be handled by ODL
** Chris (Casper) is still working in writing OF plugin RESTCONF python script in Robot FW
** Carol still to update the Robot wiki with tutorial
** Luis still to post Jenkins integration wiki

* Performance discussion
** Performance wiki is updated with all tips https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Integration_Group:Performance_Test
** We need to start collecting performance data and share it with devs. After that we can work on the thresholds for PASS/FAIL
** Chris (Casper) will write some automation for CBench test in the Ericsson Lab
** Ixia and Spirent tests not available yet, Ericsson and Brocade are working on that

=== 4/07/2014 === 
  
* Project news
** Helium release plan is still under discussion, it will be finally settle down during this Thursday TSC call
** Surekha presented release automation and versioning strategy during Monday TWS call, this also generated lot of dicussion 
** All projects (including Integration) have to create stable branch out of Hydrogen release. After that they will need to change all the SNAPSHOT versions and cherry-pick all the relevant changes from Master branch. In addition we will need to replicate a lot of Jenkins jobs to test stable editions. Luis will take a look on this
** From OF plugin call, new datastore model is already merged in master, the performance looks very good (they demo 128 switches) but it is not yet fully integrated with other OpenDaylight apps (like AD-SAL NSF)
 
* Progress report
** Surekha and Vaishali will work on Sonar and Jacoco for code and test coverage
** Lakshman, Punal and Tony will test the BGP plugin
** VTN coordinator ready at LF, test cases need to be enabled at LF. Luis will take a look on this
** Madhusudhan started Netconf test and he will focus in LINC switch
** Chris (Casper) is working in writing OF plugin RESTCONF python script in Robot FW
** Carol to update the Robot wiki with tutorial
** Luis to create Jenkins integration wiki

* Performance discussion
** Jan gave a lot of good recommendations to test openflow performance
** Performance wiki is already updated with all tips https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Integration_Group:Performance_Test
** Ixia and Spirent tests not available yet, Ericsson and Brocade are working on that
** OF project has a python script to stress the NB RESTCONF API. We will consider to re-write this script in Robot FW
** Manual performance tests can start already, we will work on the automation after we collect and analyze some results

=== 3/31/2014 === 
  
* Project news
** Surekha presented release automation strategy during hackfest, we will be supporting this activity from Integration 
** Same for stable branch presented by Chris Wright, we are very interested in this activity too because service releases will be made on this branch
** Luis presented the test strategy where the only new is that for Helium we will be more focus in ODL core components like NSF, SAL or OF rather than specific apps around the controller
** Carol performed the Robot hands-On tutorial, she will update the wiki with the slides and some recording explaining the slides (the recording did not work at the Hackfest)
** Andy & Luis worked on the Jenkins Integration in the Ericsson lab, Luis will create a wiki on how to do it for other labs
** Moiz will try ExaBGP plugin in virtualenv, in case it works we can install this plugin at LF for testing BGP plugin
 
* Progress report
** VTN coordinator ready at LF, test cases need to be enabled at LF. Luis will take a look on this
** Madhusudhan is still waiting for Cluster test bug, he also started Netconf test
** Chris (Casper) will take a look on OF plugin RESTCONF python script and will see how difficult is to port it to Robot

* Performance discussion
** Looks like controller has still some issues with CBench. Luis will ask during next OF plugin call
** We are interested in measuring CPU + RAM during performance tests, we will ask controller/OF plugin people about this
** Lakshman presented an enhanced python based CBench application that is able to plot performance graphs. He will send link.
** Luis will create a wiki on performance test

=== 3/24/2014 === 
  
* Project news 
** General project discussions around stable branch, optional feature branches and public drafts
** New Ericsson integration collaborator Chris O'Shea (Casper) will take care of Ericsson Lab
** From Monday OF plugin call, they asked integration to setup the automation for OF13 test in the Ericsson Lab during the Hackfest in Napa
** OpenDaylight Hackfest in Napa (CA) on March 27th and 28th. We will work mon 3 topics: Performance strategy + Robot Framework + Ericsson Lab integration (if Andy is available)
 
* Progress report
** VTN coordinator ready at LF but Venkat asked to wait for SW delivery coming in the next days
** Madhusudhan has reported some issue in Cluster test, he also started Netconf test
** Andy, Casper and Luis will start working on 3rd party Lab integration during the Hackfest in Napa

* Performance discussion
** We agreed we have all information we need to start performance test. 
** Test Flow: Setup recommended parameters -> perform test -> some errors/wrong behaviors expected in the beginning -> send issues to integration-dev and openflowplugin-dev 
** Luis will update wiki on how to fecth controller artifacts and create custom edition

=== 3/17/2014 === 
  
* Project news 
** From last week TSC call it is clear performace and stability are the main drivers for next release
** There is the idea to start an stable branch for every project that only containing code improvements and bug fixing but no new features
** Another idea during the TSC call is to automate the process of making releases so that we can provide "service" releases time to time
** Great opportunity to collaborate in ODL demo creation:  https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Demos_and_PoCs
** From Monday OF plugin call, they will be working on following improvements: stats collection, new thread model and new datastore model
** Monday TWS call was around new MD-SAL datastore proposal, discussion was around identifying current issues and defining next steps. There will be more calls following.
** OpenDaylight Hackfest in Napa (CA) on March 27th and 28th. We will bring 2 topics: Performance + Robot Framework
 
* Progress report
** Andy and Venkat still working on VTN coordinator installation at LF
** Carol will be evaluating Spirent OF simulation
** Andy, Madhusudhan and Luis will start working on 3rd party Lab integration to ODL
** Madhusudhan has almost finished the Cluster test at Ericsson Lab

* Performance discussion
** Surekha and Vaishali (from Cisco) joined the call, they were very interested in the integration work and the performance strategy
** We went through performance questions mail sent last week. Everybody agreed on the inventory and flow performance values to be measured in the beginnning 
** Some discussion around the test tools: Spirent currently supports OF13 simulation (same as Ixia) and CBench is surprisingly included in our integration test VM 
** Next step will be to agree on the test conditions so that we can start measuring and collecting results. Luis will send a proposal this week

=== 3/10/2014 === 
  
* Project news 
** We have new Lab available at Huawei in China (thanks Guangpeng): https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Integration_Group:East_Test_Lab
** We also have new contributor Greg Hall from Brocade joining the call. Welcome Greg to Integration team.
** For the next release we are going to focus very much on performance and stability. Not only us but also the rest of the projects
** This week we will kickoff performance team initiative driven by integration group and joined by several project people
** OpenDaylight Hackfest in Napa (CA) on March 27th and 28th. We will try bring 2 topics: Performance + Robot Framework
 
* Progress
** Some clean up is done in the Trello tool to reflect new priorities
** Andy and Venkat still working on VTN coordinator installation at LF. Worst case we can install and run the test in Ericsson or Huawei Labs
** Carol is looking at some examples and templates to illustrate Robot framework 
** Luis will start working on Ericsson-LF Jenkins integration 
** Madhusudhan will start integrating Cluster test at Ericsson Lab

* Q&A

== Old Meeting Minutes of West team ==

=== 1/29/2014 === 
  
* Project news 
** OpenDaylight projects were succesfully released the 27th. We neglected some preparation for the release (release jobs and POMs) but Ed helped setting everything up in our silo 
** Luis sent system test report on released editions the 28th, no surprises in the sense that nothing showed broken after the release
** OF plugin improved a lot for the release, we are still collaborating with the project to get more things included in system test
** We need Andy to upgrade controller VM CPU so that we can get a more stable of13 suite, he was in the call and he will do it soon
** We will have a brainstorm session after the Summit and after the Chinese holidays to set our goals for next release Helium

* Progress 
** We fulfilled ~90% of our goals for the release which is actually very good for an Open Source project. Thanks everybody.
** Madhusudhan is working on new OF plugin testing (RESTCONF + NSF)
** Carol is working on Affinity system test
** Luis is working on wrapping up stuff after the release
** East team is on holidays

* Q&A

=== 1/22/2014 === 
  
* Project news 
** Lot of work going on to prepare for release. You can check list prepared by Ed: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AoSzir1BfjyWdDQyVElWNG9mcWxhblREckZjbjFxUVE#gid=1  
** New test VM available with all test tools: Robot, mininet, controller,... https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Integration_Group:Test_VMs
** We have also published test plan for OF13 base edition (Thanks Madhusudhan): https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Integration_Group:CSIT_Test_Plan_Base_of13

* Progress 
** Progress has been tracked down using Trello tool. High priority in all releated to basic NSFs, new OF plugin, VTN, OVSDB and Affinity apps. The idea is to finalize all high priority activities by the release date. 
** Baohua and Denghui have done VTN Mgr suite. They will also cover VTN Coordinator (after the summit)
** Madhusudhan is working on new OF plugin testing (RESTCONF + NSF)
** Carol will start with Affinity right away
** Luis tries to find some slot to implement OVSDB Neutron test

* Q&A
** Chris W asked to include test VM shell scripts in our repo so they can be properly maintained/updated. Excellent idea, Luis will do that
** Also regarding test VM, it will not be suitable for Neutron test because this requires 2x mininet systems. We will need to work in a new Hypervisor-VM after the summit

=== 1/15/2014 === 
  
* Project news 
** Lot of work going on to prepare for release. You can check list prepared by Ed: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AoSzir1BfjyWdDQyVElWNG9mcWxhblREckZjbjFxUVE#gid=1  
** Some changes will need to be done in our distribution folder as we also have POM files to build the release editions. Luis sent mail to Ed and Madhu to check what needs to be done
** We will also have to add copyright/license stuff to the test code (not the POM files). Luis is waiting for Phil to check in our repo
** New VM available in ODL (thanks Andy) for OF plugin testing (and also for us) with mininet 2.1.0 and OVS 2.0.0. I tested it already and it works
** Andy also updated old VM so now we have 2 mininet VMs at ODL with latest SW. Check here: https://jenkins.opendaylight.org/integration/

* Progress 
** Progress has been tracked down using Trello tool. High priority in all releated to basic NSFs, new OF plugin, VTN, OVSDB and Affinity apps. The idea is to finalize all high priority activities by the release date. 
** Baohua and Denghui have done VTN Mgr suite.
** Madhusudhan is working on new OF plugin testing (RESTCONF + NSF)
** Arash is working on cluster test

* Q&A
** Some questions on how to push a flow to controller, how to write a test plan and how to edit wiki. All have been answered.

=== 1/8/2014 === 
  
* Project news 
** OpenDaylight will be released internally next Jan 27th. For press and media will be Feb 3rd.  
** Luis shared test strategy for the next 3 weeks. If no objections, it will be shared with TSC before next call 
** New OF plugin will be available as an option. Some concerns about new OF plugin quality by the release date
** We are collaborating very close with OF devs to get as much as possible tested before the release
** OF plugin project will use our test bed to run flow RESTCONF test. For that we will need the 4th VM. Andy will start working on this next week.

* Progress 
** Progress has been tracked down using Trello tool. High priority in all releated to basic NSFs, new OF plugin, VTN, OVSDN and Affinity apps. The idea is to finalize all high priority activities by the release date.
  
* Q&A

=== 12/11/2013 === 
  
* Project news 
** OpenDaylight release date has been postponed, Phil Rob is working with the projects on the new dates  
** We have 33 test cases running in system test (CSIT). We are currently working on adding some NSF improvements. 
** OF 1.3 plugin is coming progressively, we will get things to test every week and we will help with the verification with top priority 
** In parallel we are organizing the work around SP and Virt editions. Check Trello tool
** OVSDB and other plugin projects would benefit if there was a VM in OpenDaylight (mininet, OVS, etc...) they could use to test their code when it gets pushed in the system (verify job). We will abord this idea on the next TSC call.

* Progress 
** Progress has been tracked down using Trello tool. Still high priority on all that is in Base editon, medium priority for SP and Virt editions. 
  
* Q&A 
** Phil Rob asked what will be the impact of leaving OF 1.3 out of Hydrogen release. Although it is not a desirable scenario, since OF 1.0 is already covered in CSIT, leaving OF 1.3 out will translate in less test effort and shorter test time before the release.

=== 12/4/2013 ===

* Project news
** OpenDaylight release date will be postponed, the new proposal will be presented next TSC call
** We have 36 test cases running in system test (CSIT). Last additions on OVSDB and NSF improvements
** OF 1.3 plugin not ready yet. We are working on some CBench performance test for by the time it will be available.
** Contributors are more than welcome to start testing SP and Virtualization editions

* Progress
** Progress has been tracked down using Trello tool. High priority now on all tasks around Base edition: improve NSF, OF1.3 and Cbench

* Q&A

=== 12/11/2013 === 
  
* Project news 
** OpenDaylight release date has been postponed, Phil Rob is working with the projects on the new dates  
** We have 33 test cases running in system test (CSIT). We are currently working on adding some NSF improvements. 
** OF 1.3 plugin is coming progressively, we will get things to test every week and we will help with the verification with top priority 
** In parallel we are organizing the work around SP and Virt editions. Check Trello tool
** OVSDB and other plugin projects would benefit if there was a VM in OpenDaylight (mininet, OVS, etc...) they could use to test their code when it gets pushed in the system (verify job). We will abord this idea on the next TSC call.

* Progress 
** Progress has been tracked down using Trello tool. Still high priority on all that is in Base editon, medium priority for SP and Virt editions. 
  
* Q&A 
** Phil Rob asked what will be the impact of leaving OF 1.3 out of Hydrogen release. Although it is not a desirable scenario, since OF 1.0 is already covered in CSIT, leaving OF 1.3 out will translate in less test effort and shorter test time before the release.

=== 12/4/2013 ===

* Project news
** OpenDaylight release date will be postponed, the new proposal will be presented next TSC call
** We have 36 test cases running in system test (CSIT). Last additions on OVSDB and NSF improvements
** OF 1.3 plugin not ready yet. We are working on some CBench performance test for by the time it will be available.
** Contributors are more than welcome to start testing SP and Virtualization editions

* Progress
** Progress has been tracked down using Trello tool. High priority now on all tasks around Base edition: improve NSF, OF1.3 and Cbench

* Q&A

=== 11/27/2013 ===

* Project news
** We have 1 new contributor: Laksmi Kandadai from Ericsson, she will looking at NSF TCs improvement
** CSIT already in place with 17 TCs running automatic
** OF1.3 plugin will be ready next Monday. At least Punal, Guanpeng and Luis will work on getting it tested
** System Test environment available in instructions as well as in VM
** We need volunteers to prepare some material and speech for ODL Summit next year. Mail sent to the list

* Progress
** Progress has been tracked down using Trello tool. High priority now on all tasks around Base edition: NSF, OF1.3, OVSDB, etc...
** Arash, who has recently joined Integration group, volunteers to work on Clustering Manager

* Q&A

=== 11/20/2013 ===

* Project news
** We have 2 new contributors: Arash Eghtesadi from Inocybe and Anton Basil from Veryx Technologies. Welcome both!
** Jenkins jobs needed for system test already in place (thanks Andy). Luis made a quick tour on the new Jobs
** There is some discussion on whether VTN Mgr and Affinity can work together in Virtualization edition. Lets see what is the outcome of this.

* Progress
** Progress has been tracked down using Trello tool. Only hot items (i.e. blocking the CSIT relase) are: CSIT documentation in the wiki and the mininet VM handling. Luis is taking care of both and there will be an update very soon.

* Q&A
** What is the strategy for Sonar? Should the projects include Sonar support or not? We need to ask Giovanni. Luis will send a mail.

=== 11/13/2013 ===

* Project news
** Jenkins strategy already sort out. Luis made a quick demo on Jenkins at the Ericsson Lab.
** Lot of discussion around REST API convention, this will impact the testing in the sense that we will need to write new (or replace) some test cases for the NB APIs. For now we just need to keep an eye open on when these changes will happen.  
** OF1.3 is not ready yet but it is possible to run a simple case of inventory and check the new generated MD-SAL APIs.

* Progress
** Progress has been tracked down using Trello tool. Only hot item is the setup of the VMs in OpenDaylight. Andrew is working on providing the VM access.

* Q&A
** How are we going to support the Test VMs? some people in the Integration team will get an account to login into the VMs. This account will not have admin rights so for any task involving root access we will have to file a ticket to OpenDaylight support (Linux Foundation)
** Which projects in Opendaylight are aware the controller clustering services? Nobody knows... so Luis will ask the community.
 
=== 11/6/2013 ===

* Project news
** Lot of progress in the system test area in the last week, hopefully we keep this momentum as we would like to have some system test in place by end of next week.

* Java test progress
** Moiz was not in the call today. Luis will sync with him later this week.
** Nitin is already in contact with Moiz to help with Java works
** Still 2 pending tasks: 1) See what is needed to have projects reporting in Sonar (Andrew will help here) and 2) Setup OSGi bundle load sanity check for the release vehicles build.

* Test tools progress
** Baohua and Denghui have created Python libraries to make REST requests as well as implemented some test cases in Phython.
** Carol set up Robot framework in the Open Lab at Ericsson and wrote basic instruction.
** Andrew has almost finished preparing the VMs in OpenDaylight. He is working on the access and he will have probably something ready by next week. 
** We will meet ON Lab test people this Friday, we will send information after the meeting. Anyone interested in attending the meeting, let me know.
** IMPORTANT: We need to work on a good Jenkins plan like which triggers and jobs will be handled by Master Jenkins in ODL and Slave Jenkins in Test tools image.

* Continuous System Test progress
** Few changes in the test plan but basically frozen until we get more inputs on APIs and system test in place.
** We have a first test case running in Robot (thanks Baohua and Dengui) using CSIT test tools. 
** Question pop up on whether to use standard or custom libraries (like CSIT test tools) in Robot. We need to decide very soon on this!

* Release Features progress
** Everybody is invited to update Release Features wiki. 
** So far we miss NB APIs info from most of the projects. We will get this info through the system test conversation with the projects.

=== 10/30/2013 ===

* Project news
** New people joining the Integration team: Saritha, Phuc and Duy, welcome to OpenDaylight!

* Java test progress
** Moiz was not in the call today. Luis will sync with him later this week.
** Nitin is already in contact with Moiz to help with Java works
** Still 2 pending tasks: 1) Check in Sonar how code coverage is being tracked per module/bundle and 2) Setup OSGi bundle load sanity check for the release vehicles build.

* Test tools progress
** Carol is setting up Robot framework in the ODL Lab at Ericsson.
** Andrew is back, he is working on the VMs in OpenDaylight space. VM content is not 100% defined yet.
** Swaraj has met ON Lab test people, he will send some info and also setup a meeting with Luis, Carol and anyone interested.
** IMPORTANT we need to make a decision on the test framework for OpenDaylight very soon as the system test implementation depends on this!

* Continuous System Test progress
** Luis and Baohua started new task to write test plan for release vehicles. First draft for Base edition is already available.
** Swaraj met Prasanth to talk about Java system test. This will be introduced later after we have the Robot/Python in place.
** Baohua and Denghui already made some python scripts to be used in system test.
** Is it possible to program test cases while waiting for test framework tool (Robot, ON-Test, etc...) ? if so lets do it.

* Release Features progress
** Everybody is invited to update Release Features wiki. 
** So far we miss NB APIs info from most of the projects. We will get this info through the system test conversation with the projects.

=== 10/23/2013 ===

* Project news
** ODL Lab at Ericsson San Jose is now available to evaluate/debug test tools. There is idea to setup similar thing in China. Luis will follow up with China team.

* Java test progress
** Moiz will take a look on Sonar to check how code coverage is being tracked per module/bundle, after that we can see which bundles have poor or none coverage and do something about. Luis will follow up this.
** Moiz will try to import the existing controller sanity check for OSGi bundle load into the release vehicles build. These ones may fail even more often than controller project.
** Nitin and Moiz will meet this week to sync up on Java works.

* Test tools progress
** Carol and Denghui (or any other contributor) can now test Jenkins/Robot framework in the ODL Lab.
** Andrew is busy this week, we will sync on the VMs requirements once he is back.
** Swaraj will meet ON Lab test people to see whether we can leverage anything for our Lab. 
** Luis started to ask device information to plugin projects (OF, SNMP, LISP, BGP/PCEP, OpenDOVE)

* Continuous System Test progress
** Luis will open a new task including mentors for our CSIT deliverable.
** So far we have discussion around 2 frameworks for CSIT: Robot for python and existing Maven for java, both have their pros and cons. We will most likely setup both so that testers can choose whichever they like.
** Swaraj will meet Prasanth to understand more about Java system test

* Release Features progress
** Everybody is invited to update Release Features wiki. 
** So far we miss NB APIs info from most of the projects. Luis will ask this info as part of the system test requirements (already started).  

=== 10/16/2013 ===

* Project news
** We have a new collaborator, his name is Prasanth, works in Cisco, and he will be collaborating with Test tools for now as he he has past experience on these. Welcome Prasanth!

* Java test progress
** Moiz and Swaraj did not call today. Luis will sync with them later this week.
** New collaborator Nitin have Java knowledge so it would be good if he could support Moiz. Luis will connect them together.

* Test tools progress
** Carol sent HW and SW requirements for the VMs to Andrew. Only concern here is Mininet as not sure if it can run on RedHat.
** Andrew is going to be busy the next week so not clear when we are going to get the ODL VMs.
** Test VMs are ready in Ericsson. Luis will send details to carol and other test tools people.

* Release Features
** Lot of discussion ongoing on MD-SAL transition plan, hopefully we get a picture of the final state for Hydrogen release very soon.
** API freeze is this week but apparently is not what we thought, it is more like APIs can be generated as long as backwards compatibility is maintained. This means we will not know final APIs (including NB REST APIs) till code freezing at M5. Anyway we will start doing System Test on already known NB REST APIs.

=== 10/09/2013 ===

* Project news
** OpenStack-OpenDaylight Integration: Part of our E2E test is to integrate OpenStack-OpenDaylight in Ericsson Lab. This work can also be leveraged to present a Lab workshop during ODL Summit next year. Luis has initiated conversations with Chris Wright (RedHat) as we need OpenStack guidance and support for the integration.
** We have a new collaborator calling in the meeting today, his name is Nitin, works in Brocade (Colorado), and he is eager to help with Integration and Test tasks. Welcome Nitin!

* Java test progress
** Moiz and Swaraj are checking the Java code, starting with the controller project. Once the code is reviewed, it would be good to start a discussion in the community on what will be the minimum quality standard.
** Moiz is writing JUnit tests as well as helping other project people to do so. In addition he is setting up release vehicule building test. Thanks Moiz.
** Swaraj is checking ON.Lab Test infrastruture (TestON) to see whether we can leverage something for our tests.

* Test tools progress
** Carol sent HW and SW requirements for the VMs to Andrew. Only concern here is Mininet as not sure if it can run on RedHat.
** Andrew is going to be busy the next week so not clear when we are going to get the ODL VMs. Backup plan is to use Ericsson Lab while these get ready.

* Release Features
** Punal is checking controller code to understand features.
** Luis checked some code as well and published findings on Integration wiki.

* Q&A
** What is the status of OF13 plugin: AFAIK it is not part of the release vehicles yet as there is a lot of development going on in the OF plugin project.
** Are we going to test redundant controllers: Yes but same as for other projects that need extra HW or infrastructure (VTN, Dove, Defense4All,..), we might need to setup E2E System Test in the Lab for proper testing.

=== 10/02/2013 ===

* Project news
** GIT repository: We have Integration repository together with all develop tools: Jenkins, Nexus, etc.. Thanks Andy
** Release vehicles integration: This is not trivial task as OSGi bundles may fail to start even if the build is succesful. Ed has already set up build artifacts, configure Verify and Merge jobs in Jenkins. The build artifacts have still some issues, Moiz is helping here as well.

* Java test progress
** Moiz and Swaraj are checking the Java code, starting with the controller project. Once the code is reviewed, it would be good to start a discussion in the community on what will be the minimum quality standard.
** Moiz is writing JUnit tests as well as helping other project people to do so. Thanks Moiz.
** Moiz will also setup a WebEx session for other Integration members with Java knowledge to catch up and help him with Java tests.
** Every project that has dependencies on other projects (all except Yangtools) needs to have at least one integration test job in Jenkins. Luis has contacted all projects asking for the Integration Job: some accepted, some refused because they build very often and this would introduce unnecessary overhead, some are holding until they finalize their existing Java tests.

* Test tools progress
** Luis to work with Carol to specify HW and SW requirements for the VMs in ODL
** Ericsson Lab has already provisioned one physical box to host test VMs as well (more RAM has been ordered as well)

* Release Features
** Punal is checking controller code to understand features.
** Luis checked some code as well and published findings on Integration wiki.

* Q&A
** How to build release vehicles: Ed showed us how to build release vehicles explaning all involved files. Thanks Ed.
** How to review and submit code: Ed illustrated us on how to review and commit code. Thanks Ed.
** How to setup Jenkins so that if we have several merge jobs in the queue, release integration job only runs at the end: Not so easy, according to Eddy we will need another tool on top of Jenkins to notice this situation and eventually delete release integration jobs.

=== 09/25/2013 ===

* Project news
** Project contacts: we have contact names for all projects contributing in ODL. Check vHackfest wiki and project introduction mails from yesterday.
** ODL resources for test: Andrew (ODL sysadmin) has offered to help us with this. ODL test resources are also part of tomorrows TSC meeting agenda.  
** Integration project review: TSC will review our project during the call tomorrow. All Integration group members are welcome to join. Meeting details in TSC wiki.
** TWS calls: every Monday at 1PM (PST), they are very recommended for all Integration team members. Meeting details in TWS wiki.

* Java test progress
** Moiz and Swaraj are checking the Java code, starting with the controller project.
** JUnit tests are very minimum according to Moiz. We can check code coverage in Sonar and ask developers to write more tests.
** Every project that has dependencies on other projects (all except Yangtools) needs to have at least one integration test job in Jenkins. 

* Test tools progress
** Carol has already install some tools at home: Robot, Testopia, Jenkins.
** Carol wonders when they can be moved to ODL space. We need to get the project standard setup in place first (Repo, Jenkins, Nexus, etc..).
** Carol will work closely with Andrew to get the tools installed in ODL. Hopefully this activity can start next week.

* Q&A
** How to build and run a release vehicle: We do not really need to build the code again, we just need to create a delivery artifact that is made of other projects deliveries (same as VTN). This is also the reason we might need our own git repo. Thanks Ed.
** System Test flow: everytime a project commits code and this gets merged and tested in Jenkins, 2 tests should be triggered: 1) Every other project that has dependency on the just changed project has to run its own build test to verify changes in the new artifact do not impact project build (this is what we need to check and push now); and 2) A release vehicle (i.e. basic, virtualization, service provider, full flavor) gets built and tested within an automated environment (this is what we are trying to setup now).

== Old Meeting Minutes of East team ==

=== 01/16/2014 ===

* Project news
** Luis demo the of1.3 plugin with controller.

* Tasks progress
** Basic CSIT tool for VTN Manager has been done and pushed into the repo. And will be improved in next week before the release. And a wikipage will be published for usage reference.
** OpenflowPlugin test is working.

* Q&A
** How to use CPqD (support of1.3 also) instead of OpenvSwitch?
** There's a manual in http://github.com/CPqD.


=== 01/09/2014 ===

* Project news
** Luis share us with the 1st release on Feb, which will has the option to support of1.3.

* Tasks progress
** Baohua has passed the VTN Manager building, and will start to write the virtual edition test plan.
** Denghui is building VTN Coordinator on Fedora and Centos platform, and writes the VTN manager test plan.
** Guangpeng is working on the OpenflowPlugin test.

* Q&A
** How to supports different version of switches in control simultaneously?
** Not yet

=== 01/02/2014 ===

* Project news
** 1st release will be at Feb, 2014.

* Tasks progress
** Baohua has passed the VTN Manager building, and found problems at the VTN Coordinator.
** Denghui read the VTN wikipages and learn, and also tried to build VTN Coordinator on another type of platform (Fedora).
** Guangpeng is working on the OpenflowPlugin test.

* Q&A
** How MD-SAL supports multiple SB plugins?

=== 12/19/2013 ===

* Project news
** We have Anton to attend the meeting, who works for veryxtech.

* Tasks progress
** Baohua has read the documents on VTN, and is building the project.
** Denghui read the VTN wikipages and learn, he will setup a test environment.
** Guangpeng is working on the OpenflowPlugin test.
** Anton has setup a test environment with controller and mininet.

* Q&A
** Any documents on the opendaylight project?
*** The opendaylight wiki provides lots of materials.

=== 12/12/2013 ===

* Project news
** The ODP 1st release is delayed.
** Base edition tool is mostly done, will keep on bug fixing and function extending.
** Will go on the Virt and SP edition integration.
** Will add Anton to the invitation list.

* Tasks progress
** Baohua is working on the Virt edition, and will start work on the InCNTRE tools.
** Denghui is working on OVSDB integration test work and will start the work on Virt edition.
** Guangpeng is working on the OpenflowPlugin test.

* Q&A
** Previous test cases work with new OF plugin?
*** Not verified yet.
** How to test new OF Plugin with restconf?
*** Test with restconf, and the restconf is the future.
** The reason of separating different editions.
*** OF is the basic way, but other solutions may be required, such as OVSDB. Furthermore, OpenStack is considered, and more and more services are integrated. Totally, Virt edition is target to datacenter, while SP edition is for operator market.

=== 12/05/2013 ===

* Project news
** OpenflowPlugin(OF1.3) will be available. 
** ODP first Release is delayed.

* Tasks progress
** Baohua is updating the CSIT test wikipage, to add more keyword list. And keep updating the integration test code.
** Denghui is still working on OVSDB integration test work.
** Guangpeng is working on the OpenflowPlugin test.

* Q&A
** Cbench test time.
*** Not very long.
** Neutron implementation problem.
*** Will ask related team.

=== 11/28/2013 ===

* Project news
** OpenflowPlugin(OF1.3) team will create a build target with the new  plugin for integration test team . 
** Because of controller's bug, CSIT was down for several hours.

* Tasks progress
** Part of test cases for base edition have been ready. Denghui starts to work with OVSDB integration test work.
** OpenflowPlugin will give a build on Monday, then Guangpeng will check it and decide how to do integration test.

* Q&A
** Guangpeng asked question about Robot test suites development.

=== 11/21/2013 ===

* Project news
** Luis shares information about projects progress. 
** Denghui and Baohua has uploaded lots of TCs for base edition.

* Tasks progress
** Denghui shares their work on Robot test suites. Then they will improve them better.
** Guangpeng is working on running the openflow plugin which support OF13 in his local lab.
** Baohua is absent, Denghui is backup.

* Q&A
** Guangpeng asked the progress of first ODL release, Luis shares some information.
** Denghui asked about Robot test suite cases and execute order.

=== 11/14/2013 ===

* Project news
** Luis shares the US discussion on Jenkins setup changes, and OF 1.3 test. 
** Neela adds opendaylight as the new executive director.

* Tasks progress
** Baohua ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Integration_Group:Release_Features Release Features]) is working with denghui to start the new robot based test tools.
** Guangpeng ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/index.php?title=CrossProject:Integration_Group:CIT_Java CIT Java]) has the internal lab prepared and invites new workers on the test team.
** Denghui ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/index.php?title=CrossProject:Integration_Group:Test_Tools Test Tools]) is working with baohua, and has written a test case for the robot framework.

* Q&A
** Guangpeng asks for the software list of the vm image and the OF 1.3 test.
** Robot based tool plan is approved by all.

=== 11/07/2013 ===

* Project news
** Luis and Denghui are absent. 
** Baohua and Guangpeng read the US minutes, and share the CSIT test related news.

* Tasks progress
** Baohua ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Integration_Group:Release_Features Release Features]) is working with denghui to continue the [https://github.com/yeasy/CSIT_Test CSIT test code]. Now the test for the base edition is passed. Will go to the robot integration plan.
** Guangpeng ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/index.php?title=CrossProject:Integration_Group:CIT_Java CIT Java]) has the internal lab prepared and help test the CSIT tool.
** Denghui ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/index.php?title=CrossProject:Integration_Group:Test_Tools Test Tools]) is working with baohua, and has written a test case using CSIT tool to integrate with the robot framework.

=== 10/31/2013 ===

* Project news
** Luis shares the US team's process. There are new guys joining, and discussing on the test framework.
** ON.Lab has provided some document and video on testing.

* Tasks progress
** Baohua ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Integration_Group:Release_Features Release Features]) is working with denghui to write some CSIT test code. Currently it is maintained at [https://github.com/yeasy/CSIT_Test Github]
** Guangpeng ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/index.php?title=CrossProject:Integration_Group:CIT_Java CIT Java]) tried to setup a lab and met some ssh server problem.
** Denghui ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/index.php?title=CrossProject:Integration_Group:Test_Tools Test Tools]) is working on test case and code writing.

* Q&A
** Huawei lab setup?
*** Luis will help in ssh relation issues. 
** Install software in vm?
*** Done.
** Test framework instruction writing.
*** We may start next week, and we should not stop to wait other issues.

=== 10/24/2013 ===

* Project news
** Luis shares the US team's process. The US team has setup a test lab, and the vm is available by ssh accessing.

* Tasks progress
** Baohua ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Integration_Group:Release_Features Release Features]) is working on preparing a china testlab, will ask for some hardware support. 
** Guangpeng ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/index.php?title=CrossProject:Integration_Group:CIT_Java CIT Java]) tried to setup a lab, but there're some restriction inside the company.
** Denghui ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/index.php?title=CrossProject:Integration_Group:Test_Tools Test Tools]) is working on finishing a test case on restful API, and will write a instruction this week.

* Q&A
** Can we setup a lab in china?
*** There're some restrictions in enterprise networks, so we will setup internal test lab separately. 
** Shall we plan to write some test processing guideline?
*** Currently we do not have system testing plan, and will discuss after denghui's test case is ready.
** Will we do performance test.
*** This is long-term target.

=== 10/17/2013 ===

* Project news
** Luis shares the US team's process. The US team is working on the testing tool setup, while meeting some technical problem in VM preparation. Denghui will give a hand in the testing tool setup if possible.
** Tomorrow morning there will be a testing meeting on 9am (Beijing Time), luis will setup the meeting number and send the invitation later.

* Tasks progress
** Baohua ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Integration_Group:Release_Features Release Features]) continues reading the code of the controller project to collect necessary feature information and tries to setup the testing tool locally. 
** Guangpeng ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/index.php?title=CrossProject:Integration_Group:CIT_Java CIT Java]) builds the latest code and meet some failure.
** Denghui ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/index.php?title=CrossProject:Integration_Group:Test_Tools Test Tools]) is working on testing tool local setup, and also meets similar build failure problem.

* Q&A
** How to solve the build failure problem?
*** From Luis: There might be several reasons, should check the repo, check the internet connections, etc. 
*** From Baohua: Will do a fresh build test today and share the build log, to see if the problem is at the internet side.

=== 10/10/2013 ===

* Project news
** Read the US meeting minutes.
** [http://juniper.mwnewsroom.com/press-releases/JUNIPER-NETWORKS-INTRODUCES-OPENCONTRAIL-AN-OPEN-S-nyse-jnpr-1050858 OPENCONTRAIL] news.

* Tasks progress
** Baohua ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Integration_Group:Release_Features Release Features]) is reading the code of the controller project to collect necessary feature information. And has created and updated the release feature wiki page.
** Guangpeng ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/index.php?title=CrossProject:Integration_Group:CIT_Java CIT Java]) has pulled the controller code last days and is examining the building process. In addition, he is learning the usage of some test tools.
** Denghui ([https://wiki.opendaylight.org/index.php?title=CrossProject:Integration_Group:Test_Tools Test Tools]) is learn the test tool usage from  the wiki page.

* Q&A
** Do we need to deploy the test tools locally, or how to access the test server later?
*** From Luis: We plan 2 build 2 test setups and both will provide access to our team members to program test cases. The first one will be in OpenDaylight cloud and will be made of a few VMs: controller, mininet, REST client, test tools, etc… The second one will be built in Ericsson Lab in San Jose to do more E2E testing. 
** How should we start to review and write the test code?
*** Need more discussion here, not started yet.

* Other Issues
** Find more convenient way to hold the meeting.



[[Category:Integration Group]]
