1:25:47 PM	
(Connected)
1:25:55 PM	
(You joined the channel)
1:49:40 PM	phudgins  mlemay:  how do I make you @mlemay ?
1:50:28 PM	mlemay  I don't have the bot in yet
1:50:36 PM	mlemay  I asked andrew too late
1:50:42 PM	mlemay  it'S ok
1:53:06 PM	mlemay  so paul.. any initial thoughts
1:53:16 PM	mlemay  guess no one else wanted to join in
1:53:24 PM	mlemay  to the meeting
1:53:32 PM	phudgins  it's not 14:00 yet
1:55:49 PM	mlemay  ahh hok
1:55:54 PM	mlemay  I'll wait a bit
2:02:30 PM	mlemay  Hi Paul.. .thanks for coming over
2:02:39 PM	mlemay  I'll save the log as I don't have meetbot yet
2:03:44 PM	phudgins  seems lonely in here
2:03:49 PM	mlemay  yea definitely
2:04:06 PM	mlemay  do you think people didn't understand the slide deck?
2:04:13 PM	mlemay  I would expect rdvp to be in
2:04:22 PM	phudgins  strange that nobody else is interested enough to attend
2:04:50 PM	phudgins  perhaps we should announce it on the opendaylight now
2:04:50 PM	mlemay  it was short noticed
2:05:04 PM	mlemay  I'll hold a couple of other call post creation if it gets approved
2:05:32 PM	mlemay  ok will do
2:07:38 PM	
rhq joined the channel.
2:07:40 PM	phudgins  perhaps folks will trickle over now
2:09:10 PM	mlemay  hi rhq
2:09:26 PM	phudgins  Overall I agree with the need for both a multi-layer model and a reservation mechanism to provision and deprovision at future times
2:10:05 PM	phudgins  both of these "features" are things we are currently working on
2:10:33 PM	phudgins  so it makes a lot of sense for us to combine our efforts
2:11:05 PM	mlemay  right paul.. just a FYI, (vWAN/DRAC) was based some of our early work and we're still working with some of your people on that topic
2:11:25 PM	mlemay  #topic Introductions
2:11:34 PM	mlemay  I guess I'll start with introduction
2:11:40 PM	mlemay  I'm Mathieu Lemay (Inocybe Technologies)
2:12:01 PM	phudgins  I'm Paul Hudgins (CIENA)
2:13:19 PM	phudgins  rhq will remain anonymous?
2:14:46 PM	mlemay  rhq?
2:16:19 PM	phudgins  so what's next after introductions?
2:16:30 PM	mlemay  right I was about to go forward
2:16:41 PM	mlemay  #topic Proposal Introduction
2:16:50 PM	mlemay  Did everyone see the slides I sent out
2:17:04 PM	phudgins  +1
2:17:19 PM	mlemay  #topic Proposal feedback
2:17:29 PM	mlemay  Any initial feedback on prposal before TSC review?
2:17:55 PM	mlemay  of course it can change in form but concept will remain the same if there is no obejction from the community
2:18:51 PM	phudgins  I am already a believer that this functionality is needed in ODL.  Will this be the case for the TSC members or will there need to be more motivation?
2:19:37 PM	mlemay  I might hit a wall a bit but I should be able to get some convinced
2:19:52 PM	mlemay  feel free to join in tomorrow on the tsc
2:20:06 PM	phudgins  It is on my calendar already
2:20:07 PM	mlemay  want to be invoveled in th eprposal?
2:20:20 PM	mlemay  resource comitted
2:21:14 PM	phudgins  of course I don't have the final say in who gets "commited" but I don't see why we can't at this point
2:21:46 PM	mlemay  for sure and I was told taht can change
2:22:01 PM	mlemay  initially thy simply want to get the projects going
2:22:04 PM	phudgins  in other words - we will have to reach some consensus on the implementation before my superiors will commit
2:22:05 PM	mlemay  so that we don't miss helieum
2:22:10 PM	mlemay  wE'll have design sessions etc
2:22:13 PM	mlemay  right after
2:22:28 PM	mlemay  works for me
2:22:39 PM	phudgins  agreed - so yes, we are committed to begin discussions
2:22:40 PM	mlemay  are you working with people from CTO office?
2:22:58 PM	mlemay  had sessions with Michael Ward recently
2:22:58 PM	phudgins  yes
2:23:11 PM	mlemay  (Also I know Rod Wilson quite well)
2:23:11 PM	rhq  I'm Ralph Quapp (ALU)
2:23:20 PM	mlemay  hi Ralph
2:23:23 PM	phudgins  not recently
2:23:28 PM	phudgins  hi Ralph
2:23:50 PM	mlemay  did you get a chance to see proposal?
2:24:01 PM	rhq  Not yet
2:25:14 PM	mlemay  ok
2:25:25 PM	mlemay  please have a look and let me know if you would be interested in the project
2:25:43 PM	mlemay  you can catch me on e-mail too if you have questions
2:25:48 PM	mlemay  mlemay@inocybe.com
2:26:59 PM	rhq  Thanks, at this point only interested as observer
2:27:55 PM	mlemay  ok no problems
2:28:17 PM	mlemay  anyways the project will form a bit more over the upcoming days
2:28:29 PM	mlemay  as I was mentioning I need to present to TSC
2:28:41 PM	mlemay  Paul feeel free to change wiki page for proposal as you see fit
2:29:30 PM	phudgins  this will be the first time through a TSC project proposal - not sure what to expect
2:30:48 PM	phudgins  how tied to the OGF NSI interface do you think will be desired?
2:31:20 PM	mlemay  diddo
2:31:23 PM	mlemay  I have two at the same time
2:31:29 PM	mlemay  (docs+reservation)
2:31:29 PM	phudgins  our marketing folks don't see much interest from service providers (different story in the R&D community)
2:31:34 PM	mlemay  yea
2:31:36 PM	mlemay  +1
2:32:33 PM	phudgins  our work is moving towards supporting the ONF Optical Transport Working Group (OTWG) information model
2:32:48 PM	mlemay  yes
2:32:52 PM	mlemay  I've seen that too
2:32:55 PM	phudgins  which in itself is trying to align with the TMF model
2:32:59 PM	mlemay  should I add that to proposal
2:33:15 PM	mlemay  I'm not particulaly fond of NSI
2:33:24 PM	phudgins  the ONF is a closed group
2:33:32 PM	mlemay  but not really caring about northbound either
2:34:07 PM	mlemay  (I didn't join ONF for particular reasons but not against moving some of these things in here)
2:34:31 PM	phudgins  we are utilizing this OTWG model internally, not just a northbound IF
2:35:13 PM	phudgins  let me find out how restrictive the ONF is on this
2:35:51 PM	mlemay  ok I still have access to ONF docs (as we created teh startup Noviflow who are members)
2:36:07 PM	phudgins  Another potential negative is that this model is not mature - still being worked on in the working group
2:36:23 PM	mlemay  it might nudge me more in ONF
2:37:00 PM	phudgins  access is one thing, making an implementation open source may be frowned upon
2:37:06 PM	mlemay  I was involved in OF pre-ONF and had some concerns on ONF when it launched
2:37:29 PM	mlemay  isn't that the purpose?
2:37:44 PM	mlemay  (partially)
2:38:03 PM	mlemay  othwersie better jsut use TMF stuff
2:38:09 PM	mlemay  or proprietary models
2:38:12 PM	mlemay  we have that already
2:38:46 PM	phudgins  since they are attempting at aligning, TMF could always be a fallback
2:38:50 PM	mlemay  yea
2:38:57 PM	mlemay  works for me
2:39:06 PM	mlemay  do you wish me to add some of that to proposal?
2:39:15 PM	mlemay  (as exploratory)
2:39:28 PM	mlemay  (optional)
2:39:43 PM	phudgins  I'll need to have further discussions with our ONF representatives to ensure we are not crossing any lines
2:41:34 PM	phudgins  we can add this as an "intent" with the constraint of ensuring no legal boundaries are crossed?
2:47:22 PM	mlemay  yea
2:47:24 PM	mlemay  sure
2:47:28 PM	mlemay  will do that
2:47:39 PM	mlemay  we can refine all that in our detailed design meetings
2:47:43 PM	mlemay  if you are ok with that
2:47:53 PM	mlemay  I just want ot present the need for the "service"
2:48:14 PM	mlemay  then we can discuss interfaces / datamodels and whatnot
2:48:47 PM	phudgins  agreed
2:49:00 PM	mlemay  perfect thanks alot for your support Paul
2:49:03 PM	mlemay  really appreciated
2:49:20 PM	mlemay  do you want to schedule a work sessions in the upcoming days
2:49:29 PM	mlemay  or weeks
2:49:38 PM	phudgins  always good to not be going alone
2:50:04 PM	phudgins  yes - next couple of days would be good
2:52:41 PM	mlemay  perfecet
2:53:08 PM	mlemay  Please review wiki page and make changes you want
2:53:25 PM	phudgins  will do
2:53:38 PM	mlemay  any other item to discuss?
2:56:02 PM	phudgins  can you post the wiki location here?  I can't seem to find a way to naviagte to it from the main
2:56:13 PM	mlemay  ok 1 sec
2:56:50 PM	phudgins  found it - #link https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Project_Proposals:Dynamic_Resource_Reservation
2:56:58 PM	mlemay  https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Project_Proposals:Dynamic_Resource_Reservation
2:57:56 PM	phudgins  my only other concern is whether having multi-layer and reservation combined may be considered too much for one project?
3:01:39 PM	mlemay  hard to seperate
3:01:56 PM	mlemay  we'll do it in 2 phases
3:01:58 PM	mlemay  (IMO)
3:02:25 PM	mlemay  they might want to get it split but hard to allocate resource dynamically if no multilayer routing
3:02:41 PM	mlemay  from my experience
3:03:05 PM	phudgins  easy to separate into two projects - but certainly the reservation system will depend on the multi-layer support
3:03:07 PM	mlemay  resource reservation and multilayer routing are linked
3:03:22 PM	mlemay  vice versa
3:03:54 PM	mlemay  multilayer depends on resource availability in a given point in time
3:04:00 PM	mlemay  (routing)
3:05:39 PM	phudgins  I was separating the work of modeling mutli-layer aspects from the temporal aspects of reservation
3:05:52 PM	mlemay  yes
3:06:01 PM	mlemay  I agree but there is codependency
3:06:13 PM	mlemay  for end to end solution
3:06:20 PM	mlemay  but they are different work items
3:06:22 PM	mlemay  but coupled
3:07:03 PM	mlemay  go ahead and make changes :)
3:07:09 PM	 phudgins we are probably good to go then
3:08:04 PM	mlemay  perfect fhanks for everything I,ll follow up
3:08:10 PM	mlemay  based off tomorrow's feedback
3:08:29 PM	phudgins  ok - I'll be there
3:08:42 PM	mlemay  thank I'll adjourn meeting if nothing else
