== Status Meeting ==

'''Leader:'''
* Mike Dvorkin <dvorkin@insiemenetworks.com>

'''Members:'''

* Keith Burns <alagalah@noironetworks.com>
* Thomas Bachman <bachman@noironetworks.com>
* Rob Adams <adams@noironetworks.com>
* Dan Conde <dconde@midokura.com>
* Stephen Wong <s3wong@midokura.com>
* Ryan Moats <rmoats@us.ibm.com>
* Daljeet Singh <singhda@us.ibm.com>
* Mickey Spiegel <emspiege@us.ibm.com>
* Dave Lenrow <david.lenrow@hp.com>
* Liem Nguyen <liem_m_nguyen@hp.com>
* Uyen Chau <uyen.chau@hp.com>
* Rex Pugh <rex.pugh@hp.com>
* Chris Price <christopher.price@ericsson.com>
* Raghurama Bhat <ragbhat@cisco.com>
* Allyn Romanow <allyn@cisco.com>
* Jan Medved <jmedved@cisco.com>
* Rob Dolin <robdolin@microsoft.com>
* Derick Winkworth <derick.winkworth@plexxi.com>
* Prasad Vellanki <prasad.vellanki@oneconvergence.com>
* Hemanth Ravi <hemanth.ravi@oneconvergence.com>

== Charter/Purpose ==
General review of sub-groups, general business, project tracking.

== Team Meeting ==
'''Time and Location:'''

* 1pm Pacific, Thursdays.
* IRC: #opendaylight-group-policy
* Join and email [mailto:groupbasedpolicy-dev@lists.opendaylight.org Group Policy Dev] for a Calendar invite.
'''Agenda/Minutes:'''

'''Thu May8'''

Agenda

== Information From Past Meetings ==
<div class="toccolours mw-collapsible mw-collapsed" style="width:800px">
'''Thursday Apr24'''
<div class="mw-collapsible-content">
Agenda

1. Helium Release Plan:
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Simultaneous_Release:Helium_Release_Plan

2. Actions from last week:

Repository/Endpoint:
* alagalah and readams1 to work on a date for date
* Target to have a skeleton structure by next week's Monday

Datastore:
No actions but RegXBoi feels we have enough to start building a Yang model from the UML Model (alagalah agrees)

Operational State
* alagalah and regxboi to discuss putting this meeting on hold until we have something to operationalise in the Status meeting
* alagalah to confirm in Status meeting that charter is indeed instrumentation and ensuring proper operational aspects are included in subgroups

Renderer:
* Meeting on hold until readams/alagalah get a strawman prototype built. Need to decide on what to render (Affinity seems interesting? Rather than OF/OVSDB) and everything else is static.

[http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/group_policy_status/opendaylight-group-policy-group_policy_status.2014-04-24-19.56.html Minutes]
</div>
</div>

<div class="toccolours mw-collapsible mw-collapsed" style="width:800px">
'''Thursday Apr17'''
<div class="mw-collapsible-content">
[https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=e641698ea072445e88a9566edc145ec3 WebEx recording Thu Apr17]
</div>
