== Renderes SubGroup ==

'''Leader:'''
* Keith Burns <alagalah@noironetworks.com>

'''Members:'''

* Mike Dvorkin <dvorkin@insiemenetworks.com>
* Rob Adams <adams@noironetworks.com>
* Ryan Moats <rmoats@us.ibm.com>
* Dave Lenrow <david.lenrow@hp.com>
* Stephen Wong <s3wong@midokura.com>
* Mickey Spiegel <emspiege@us.ibm.com>
* Prasad Vellanki <prasad.vellanki@oneconvergence.com>
* Rob Adams <adams@noironetworks.com>
* Dave Tucker <djt@redhat.com>

== Charter/Purpose ==
Issue: policy constructs are rendered to different mechanisms. There’s lots of common work to be done.  We will start with one group, and we will have one renderer per technology so we don’t have one monolithic renderer for all technologies.

== Team Meeting ==
'''Time and Location:'''

Currently on hold until strawman prototype written by Rob Adams/Keith Burns

'''Minutes:'''

Action items

alagalah to ensure that these minutes are linked to Renderer sub-group page and ARCH page and in ARCH agenda
alagalah to add whiteboard usecases to ARCH agenda
... [[https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/datastore/opendaylight-group-policy-datastore.2014-05-05-14.01.html Place holder from DataStore May5 meeting]
