__TOC__

=Overview=
The Weekly MD-SAL interest call will contain a 15 minute status update followed by additional information for the given week. Please see the agenda for the update topic.

=Weekly Meeting=
*Link https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=MCQK23GTHZNO7LDV6UWT6KLYPV-9VIB&rnd=497132.35684

* '''Time:''' Tuesdays 9am US/Pacific
**Meeting number: 194 764 014
**Password: This meeting does not require a password.
**Host key: 720589 (Use this key in the meeting if you have made someone else the host and then want to reclaim the host role.)
 
*Audio Connection
**1-855-244-8681 Call-in toll-free number (US/Canada)
**1-650-479-3207 Call-in toll number (US/Canada)
**Access code: 194 764 014

= Agenda =
''Tuesday, June 24th, 2014 (Coming Up)''
*Status Update
*Requested:
** Review config vs operational attributes and how they relate to data stores
** Review DataBroker documented APIs, updated Toaster
** If time allows, walk through the Archetype
** Other topics? Please modify this page and/or email Devin Avery at Brocade.com.

''Tuesday, July 1st, 2014 (Coming Up)''
*Status Update
*Requested:
** Demo dLux UI?
** Clustering Update
** Other topics? Please modify this page and/or email Devin Avery at Brocade.com.

= Weekly Status =
==== June 24th, 2014 ====
Scheduled:
* Status Update - 15 minutes
** Review config vs operational attributes and how they relate to data stores
** Review DataBroker documented APIs, updated Toaster
** Run through comments on BindingAware Consumer/Provider

'''What was Done:'''
* Documented DataBroker interfaces, and also updated the Toaster example to leverage the DataBroker interfaces (toaster example is merge pending)
* Cleaned up pom files, moving versioning up to variables in the parent pom.xml
* Clustering - lots of patches are coming in.
* Removed a duplicate "Node" yang file that added one of the many "Node.class" which made things confusing


'''What will be done (Whats planned):'''
* Add extensive documentation to RPC & Notification classes
* Update the yang generation to add more comments into the generated java files
* Commented the opendaylight-inventory.yang file with extensive usage comments (Ramkumar to look at)  

'''Blocking Issues:'''
* [Colin] A future discussion might be nice around how much we want / need to expose the yang to developers (Agenda item for next week - What should be done in Java vs in Yang? What should you be able to understand from Java without looking at Yang?)

'''Other Topics:'''
* Sharon - new API - SQL API to the yang datastore  ( would like to present next week)

*'''Recording: '''
TBD

* '''Minutes'''
Minutes:        TBD
<br>Minutes (text): TBD
<br>Log:            TBD

==== June 17th, 2014 ====
Scheduled:
* Status Update - 15 minutes
* Krish – Discussing how to have a consumer/producer defined in the same model (Krish – please come prepared to share your code and show some code to level set folks)
* Ed – Concrete MD-SAL Usability improvement.

'''What was Done:'''
* Clustering patches for datastore are starting to merge into master (coming in in small chunks)

'''What will be done (Whats planned):'''
* Start making usability enhancements to MD-SAL - start small iterate. [Devin]
* Restconf Swagger Documentation that show MountPoints, and a number of other enhancements [Devin] - patch set 8038
* Restconf Depth parameter - https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/#/c/5325/
* sql API on top of MD-SAL - 7197 - interesting approach to how we might be able to put a query mechanism on top.

'''Blocking Issues:'''
None

'''Other Topics:'''
None

*'''Recording: '''
No recording this week since we didn't have host reclaim key. :( Next week I hope to fix that. 

* '''Minutes'''
Minutes:        http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_call.2014-06-17-16.06.html
<br>Minutes (text): http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_call.2014-06-17-16.06.txt
<br>Log:            http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_call.2014-06-17-16.06.log.html

==== June 3nd, 2014 ====
Scheduled:
* Status Update - 15 minutes
* Bug Scrub - Remainder of the time. [ This didn't work out - if you have specific items which need debate please bring it up. If you would like to contribute, please select a bug that sounds interesting and send a mail asking for help if needed. ]
* Ed W. asked for a follow-up on M2 MD-SAL goals.

'''What was Done:'''
*Datastore performance improvements (multiple patches, being submitted as we go) - restructures the data store for clarity. (Robert Varga)
*Bug 1120 - binding independent notification completely lock free and most of the time doesn't allocate any objects. (Robert)
*Bug 724 - Hashcode Equals in Instance Identifier (Tom P)
*Merged issue that resolves problem with whitespace in RPC call input (Tom P)
*Xtend code was removed from a number of places

'''What will be done (Whats planned):'''
*https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/OpenDaylight_Controller:MD-SAL:Architecture:Clustered_Data_Store (https://bugs.opendaylight.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1052)
   - continuing with proof of concept work. Would like to demo something next week (Moiz)
*Introduction of transaction chaining (Tony) - patches are in
  - In code review. Merge depends on other committers.
*Xtend code is slowly being removed from a number of places.

*On going - documenting yangtools and md-sal API - documenting one package a day (Tony) Look up     api-clarity  topic of gerrit patches to find this documentation.
*working on a jquery style interface into MD-SAL - ability to do faster / lookups on dom tree -colindixon - working with intern neil_b
*new regression test suite which will contain new models which will help with tricky testing situations - augmentation etc. ( Martin V. ) Patches on code review.


'''Blocking Issues:'''
* Waiting on getting code merged to main - [ Tom P to add lists ]
   - What do we need to do to get code committer?
        - Assign a committer to review the issue once you are done - that way committer can see it listed in their "changes".
        - Who is actively committing MD-SAL code to Controller? Tony, Ed Warnicke, Rob Varga         -  YangTools? RobVarga, Tony
   - Proposal: Stick a "DO NOT MERGE" in front of patch that is not ready to be looked at.  


'''Other Topics:'''
None

*'''Recording: '''
No recording of last week.

* '''Minutes'''
Minutes:        http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/weekly_md_sal_call/opendaylight-meeting-weekly_md_sal_call.2014-06-03-16.06.html
Minutes (text): http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/weekly_md_sal_call/opendaylight-meeting-weekly_md_sal_call.2014-06-03-16.06.txt
Log:            http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/weekly_md_sal_call/opendaylight-meeting-weekly_md_sal_call.2014-06-03-16.06.log.html

====May 27th, 2014====
Scheduled:
* Status Update - 15 minutes
**What do we complete last week?
**What are we planning to complete this week?
**Are you blocked (need help) on anything? (helps if you open an ask.opendaylight.com question if you are blocked so we can track)
* Demo the Akka Clustering Prototype (Moiz) - 40 Minutes

'''What was Done:'''
*ietf-restconf (/modules and /streams) (Devin Avery)
*Bug 990, where enum types are not getting translated between binding aware / binding independent correctly - Martin is looking at these issues – The fix was merged just before the call. - Martin Bobak
*Datastore performance improvements (multiple patches, being submitted as we go) - restructures the data store for clarity. (Robert Varga) {some merged in, more to come}
*Bug 1010 - Return from Restconf the errors as defined in the ieft draft (Tom Pantelis)
*Netconf connector – return the netconf errors back in the rpc result (allow the RPC errors to be passed through). (Tom Pantelis)
*waiting on a parent patch.

'''What will be done (Whats planned):'''
*Datastore performance improvements (multiple patches, being submitted as we go) - restructures the data store for clarity. (Robert Varga)
*https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/OpenDaylight_Controller:MD-SAL:Architecture:Clustered_Data_Store (https://bugs.opendaylight.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1052)
*Introduction of transaction chaining (Tony) - patches are in
*On going - documenting yangtools and md-sal API - documenting one package a day (Tony) Look up     api-clarity  topic of gerrit patches to find this documentation.
*working on a jquery style interface into MD-SAL - ability to do faster / lookups on dom tree -colindixon - working with intern neil_b
*new regression test suite which will contain new models which will help with tricky testing situations - augmentation etc. ( Martin V. )

'''Blocking Issues:'''
*https://ask.opendaylight.org/question/99/how-does-request-routing-works/ [Need confirmation that underlying issue was resolved]  - Tony will follow
*If you have two different vendors, and you want to create a vlan, the consumer will issue the same command, how does it get routed to the correct plug based on the node. Is there some flag? -Tony and Shoaib will follow-up off line - [Need to confirm that this issue is resolved]
*Request to do a bug triage to see what bugs are valid, need to be worked etc [Triage / bug scrub] - proposal to have a scrub next week

'''Other Topics:'''
"What is preventing from using MD-SAL?" - 
  * Survey Monkey? 
  * Need to figure out who is willing to work on stuff?
  * Some items should be discussed. Statement of work for an item may change after we discuss (particular performance).
  * Suggest opening a bug zilla ticket for each item in the list so we can discuss them in detail and track discussion [ unless someone objects ]
       * Ask.opendaylight.org ( or something similar?)
       * example: scala discussion - open as bug or on the mailing list? No "bug" associated, so different problem.

*'''Recording: '''
https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/url/eDAvgQyS3hPw7JmZdIL2M6KwVmKRY-iSdr_NGzFQzcO00000

* '''Minutes'''
**[http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_weekly_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_weekly_call.2014-05-27-16.05.html HTML]
**[http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_weekly_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_weekly_call.2014-05-27-16.05.txt Test]
**[http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_weekly_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_weekly_call.2014-05-27-16.05.log.html Log]

====May 20th, 2014====
'''What was Done:'''
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1O5PxEM1eLszMuWf9M11AD5w7siT9vHOkzR85gjCB-6c/edit#gid=322436364
*Call mounted RPC calls via RestConf
*Binding Aware builders have been improved in terms of memory efficiency ( should be 48 bytes less)
*Stability issues and correctness issues fixed over last week – some coming from openFlow plugins
*100% testing all OF13 integration tests

'''What will be done (Whats planned):'''
*Bug 1010 - Return from Restconf the errors as defined in the ieft draft (Tom Pantelis)
*ietf-restconf (/modules and /streams) (Devin Avery)
*Netconf connector – return the netconf errors back in the rpc result (allow the RPC errors to be passed through). (Tom Pantelis)
*waiting on a parent patch.
*Bug 990, where enum types are not getting translated between binding aware / binding independent correctly - Martin is looking at these issues – The fix was merged just before the call. - Martin Bobak
*Datastore performance improvements (multiple patches, being submitted as we go) - restructures the data store for clarity. (Robert Varga)
*https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/OpenDaylight_Controller:MD-SAL:Architecture:Clustered_Data_Store (https://bugs.opendaylight.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1052)

'''Blocking Issues:'''
*https://ask.opendaylight.org/question/99/how-does-request-routing-works/  - Tony will follow
*If you have two different vendors, and you want to create a vlan, the consumer will issue the same command, how does it get routed to the correct plug based on the node. Is there some flag? -Tony and Shoaib will follow-up off line

'''Other Topics:'''
Any thing else big coming down the pipe?
*Clusting MD-SAL (How, when, architecture etc) - (Jake Samash) – Akka clusting, rest api’s, clustered data store. 
*Also clustering the features, so we could provide a registered OSGI service, and then deploy different features to different nodes and potentially cluster the controller.

= Historical Meeting Minutes (Prior to May 20th)=
===May 6, 2014: Infinispan In-Memory Data Store Prototype ===
* '''Minutes''':
** [http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_weekly_meeting/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_weekly_meeting.2014-05-06-16.13.html Minutes]
** [http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_weekly_meeting/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_weekly_meeting.2014-05-06-16.13.txt Minutes(txt)]
** [http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_weekly_meeting/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_weekly_meeting.2014-05-06-16.13.log.html Minutes(raw)]
* [https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=ee9b23edb5fd449da213d7f3a83e2042 WebExRecording] 
* [[OpenDaylight_Controller:MD-SAL:The Infinispan Data Store |Prototype wiki]]
* [https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/#/c/5900/ Prototype code]

===April 29, 2014: Inocybe dat store update, MD-SAL Archetype, RESCTONF Tool ===
* [https:///cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=0e025c295c004d238f3c3a016b8c3318 WebEx Recording]

===April 22, 2014: Karaf Container ===
* [https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=ea008e89723b4f0fa64204d78d5a5146  WebEx Recording]

===April 15, 2014: APIC Presentation Part II===
* '''Minutes''':
** [http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-15-16.07.html Minutes]
** [http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-15-16.07.txt Minutes(txt)]
** [http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-15-16.07.log.html Minutes(raw)]
* [https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=108032230c024db6b4d037f6d1fda5e1 WebEx Recording]
* '''Notes from Part I (TWS Call on April 4, 2014):'''
** [http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-14-17.07.html Minutes]
** [http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-14-17.07.txt Minutes (text)]
** [http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-14-17.07.log.html Log]
* '''Presentation''': [[File:APIC Presentation 04-13-2014.pdf]]

===April 8, 2014: MD-SAL Akka Prototype===
* '''Minutes''':
** [http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-08-16.09.html Minutes]
** [http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-08-16.09.txt Minutes(txt)]
** [http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-08-16.09.log.html Minutes(raw)]
* [https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=8a19ade66f0f49daaae57886e3305af2 WebEx Recording]
* '''Presentation''': [[File:MD-SAL Akka Prototype.pdf]]

===April 1, 2014: Data Store Performance Improvements Demo===
* [https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=43af95c195404d10bba1f57a63049f1a%20 WebEx recording]
