__TOC__

[[overview]]
= Overview

The Weekly MD-SAL interest call will contain a 15 minute status update
followed by additional information for the given week. Please see the
agenda for the update topic.

[[weekly-meeting]]
= Weekly Meeting

* Link
https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=MCQK23GTHZNO7LDV6UWT6KLYPV-9VIB&rnd=497132.35684

* *Time:* Tuesdays 9am US/Pacific
** Meeting number: 194 764 014
** Password: This meeting does not require a password.
** Host key: 720589 (Use this key in the meeting if you have made
someone else the host and then want to reclaim the host role.)

* Audio Connection
** 1-855-244-8681 Call-in toll-free number (US/Canada)
** 1-650-479-3207 Call-in toll number (US/Canada)
** Access code: 194 764 014

[[agenda]]
= Agenda

''Tuesday, July 29th, 2014

* Status Update
* Other topics? Please modify this page and/or email Devin Avery at
Brocade.com.

*On Going Discussions that are needed.*

* Start discussions on how we want to "standardize" models in ODL.
** An extremely light weight review body?
** Add certain people as reviewers to gerritts that change yang models?
** How do we keep this from being an impedance to getting things done?
** Their purpose: review and discuss models, provide suggestions when
two models are close to eachother.
* General Discussion: How to insulate people from changes in yangtools /
code generation.

[[weekly-status]]
= Weekly Status

[[july-22nd-2014]]
==== July 22nd, 2014

Agenda:

* Status Update
* Start discussions on how we want to "standardize" models in ODL.
[Tabled for today]
** An extremely light weight review body?
** Add certain people as reviewers to gerritts that change yang models?
** How do we keep this from being an impedance to getting things done?
** Their purpose: review and discuss models, provide suggestions when
two models are close to eachother.
* Discuss proposal to change behavior of generated builders.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hi,
 We have proposal and bugfix ready for bug 1097 (https://bugs.opendaylight.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1097)
 in YANGTools, but This one changes behaviour in generated builders and DTOs in such way,
 that if you have getter for List of items, it will allways return non-null value,  even if 
 user specified null for list.
  
 This means users of DTOs can not use null value to signallize there is no list present (which may be different
 then List is empty). There are some projects, which uses these DTOs also for protocol libraries and so 
 on, and we want to know from the community point of view, if we want to have non-null lists 
 or possibility to use also nulls.
 
 Tony
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Wojciech - seeing a need to change the restconf implementation and
some aspects on how it is set up.

*What was Done:*

* commit API was changed to a "CheckedFuture" and renamed to "submit".
Toaster was updated with this example.

*What will be done (Whats planned):*

* [Colin D] Build DataObject <-> XML/JSON (focusing on DataObject->JSON)
- hoping it will be done by the end of the week.
* auto-create parents when putting a child into databroker.
(https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/#/c/8736/)

* '''Recording: ''' -
https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/url/jtRO3Mh1oDWerF-xznqRmxjAKfJcvhWXtYFc2SziZVG00000

* *Minutes*

Minutes:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_interest_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_interest_call.2014-07-22-16.07.html
Minutes (text):
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_interest_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_interest_call.2014-07-22-16.07.txt
Log:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_interest_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_interest_call.2014-07-22-16.07.log.html

[[july-15th-2014]]
==== July 15th, 2014

Agenda:

* Status Update - 15 minutes

*What was Done:*

* Toaster example was updated with "proper" async programming code
samples.

*What will be done (Whats planned):*

* Tom Pantelis - Write Transaction API - we are changing the commit
method so that it does return any error - all error conditions will go
through exceptions. Deprecating the commit() and will add a method
called "ready()"
** Simplifies how you would check if the transaction was "successful"
* Tony - pushing a patch to allow MD-SAL to optionally create parents
* Read method - make it type safe so you don't have to case the response
manually.
* Clustering (On going) - need to bring Moiz back for an update (Check
IRC logs for links)
*
* '''Recording: ''' - coming

* *Minutes*

Minutes:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_status_call___july_15th__2014/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_status_call___july_15th__2014.2014-07-15-16.14.html
Minutes (text):
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_status_call___july_15th__2014/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_status_call___july_15th__2014.2014-07-15-16.14.txt
Log:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_status_call___july_15th__2014/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_status_call___july_15th__2014.2014-07-15-16.14.log.html

[[july-8th-2014]]
==== July 8th, 2014

Agenda:

* Status Update - 15 minutes
* [Owner: Harman Singh] Demo dLux UI? - 15 minutes (Tentative - may not
show today).
* [Owner: Devin Avery]: Demo the archtetype to get a MD-SAL project
started.

*What was Done:*

* MD-SAL Archetypes - number fixes delivered to master [Devin]
* Pushed some code to config subsystem for merging config references.
[Ed]
* A number of bug fixes to address issues with new data broker API.
[Tony]

` * Some are in review, merged and pending discussions.` +
` * Increasing test coverage on MD-SAL  `

*What will be done (Whats planned):*

* More bug fixes and usability enhancements on MD-SAL

* '''Recording: ''' - No Recording this week due to limitation with
concurrent licenses on Web-Ex.

* *Minutes*

Minutes:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_status_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_status_call.2014-07-08-16.01.html
Minutes (text):
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_status_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_status_call.2014-07-08-16.01.txt
Log:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_status_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_status_call.2014-07-08-16.01.log.html

[[july-1st-2014]]
==== July 1st, 2014

Scheduled:

* Status Update - 15 minutes
* [Owner: Devin]: Demo the DataBrokerService apis via the toaster
example - 15 minutes
* [Owner: Harman Singh] Demo dLux UI? - 15 minutes (Tentative - may not
show today).
* [Owner: Moiz] Clustering Update - 15 minutes

*What was Done:*

* Renamed "BindingDataBroker" to just DataBroker -
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/8338
* Documented the "DataBroker" APIs -
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/8046
* Document the RPC related service APIs -
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/8330
* Deprecate Old APIs ( with pointers to new APIs ) -
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/8322
* Updated Toaster to use new APIs:
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/8168
* Updated Notification Document ...
* Clustering work is on going (see update in middle of call)

*What will be done (Whats planned):*

* Archetype for generating a MD-SAL application - hope is this can help
simplify initial interations with config subsystem.

`    * A bunch of simple changes that make things easier. See `https://bugs.opendaylight.org/buglist.cgi?list_id=10140&product=toolkit&query_format=advanced&resolution[`https://bugs.opendaylight.org/buglist.cgi?list_id=10140&product=toolkit&query_format=advanced&resolution`]`=---` +

*Blocking Issues:*

* Toolkit who owns? - Harman, Madhu, Colin D...
* Question - why are archetypes not pushing to git repo? (Colin D to
look at)

*Other Topics:*

* '''Recording: ''' TBD

* *Minutes*
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_meeting/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_meeting.2014-07-01-16.03.html[minutes
(html)]
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_meeting/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_meeting.2014-07-01-16.03.txt[minutes
(txt)]
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_meeting/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_meeting.2014-07-01-16.03.log.html[log]

[[june-24th-2014]]
==== June 24th, 2014

Scheduled:

* Status Update - 15 minutes
** Review config vs operational attributes and how they relate to data
stores
** Review DataBroker documented APIs, updated Toaster
** Run through comments on BindingAware Consumer/Provider

*What was Done:*

* Documented DataBroker interfaces, and also updated the Toaster example
to leverage the DataBroker interfaces (toaster example is merge pending)
* Cleaned up pom files, moving versioning up to variables in the parent
pom.xml
* Clustering - lots of patches are coming in.
* Removed a duplicate "Node" yang file that added one of the many
"Node.class" which made things confusing

*What will be done (Whats planned):*

* Add extensive documentation to RPC & Notification classes
* Update the yang generation to add more comments into the generated
java files
* Commented the opendaylight-inventory.yang file with extensive usage
comments (Ramkumar to look at)

*Blocking Issues:*

* [Colin] A future discussion might be nice around how much we want /
need to expose the yang to developers (Agenda item for next week - What
should be done in Java vs in Yang? What should you be able to understand
from Java without looking at Yang?)

*Other Topics:*

* Sharon - new API - SQL API to the yang datastore ( would like to
present next week)
* Existing Bug - Prevent operational only attributes to be written to
config datastore. https://bugs.opendaylight.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1014

* '''Recording: ''' -
https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/url/hlz-ZP08VfcS2bsgN1lMCN9X8eWcpIXnvrTligqqqFG00000

* *Minutes*

Minutes:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_meeting/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_meeting.2014-06-24-16.05.html +
Minutes (text):
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_meeting/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_meeting.2014-06-24-16.05.txt +
Log:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_meeting/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_meeting.2014-06-24-16.05.log.html

[[june-17th-2014]]
==== June 17th, 2014

Scheduled:

* Status Update - 15 minutes
* Krish – Discussing how to have a consumer/producer defined in the same
model (Krish – please come prepared to share your code and show some
code to level set folks)
* Ed – Concrete MD-SAL Usability improvement.

*What was Done:*

* Clustering patches for datastore are starting to merge into master
(coming in in small chunks)

*What will be done (Whats planned):*

* Start making usability enhancements to MD-SAL - start small iterate.
[Devin]
* Restconf Swagger Documentation that show MountPoints, and a number of
other enhancements [Devin] - patch set 8038
* Restconf Depth parameter -
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/#/c/5325/
* sql API on top of MD-SAL - 7197 - interesting approach to how we might
be able to put a query mechanism on top.

*Blocking Issues:* None

*Other Topics:* None

* '''Recording: '''

No recording this week since we didn't have host reclaim key. :( Next
week I hope to fix that.

* *Minutes*

Minutes:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_call.2014-06-17-16.06.html +
Minutes (text):
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_call.2014-06-17-16.06.txt +
Log:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_call.2014-06-17-16.06.log.html

[[june-3nd-2014]]
==== June 3nd, 2014

Scheduled:

* Status Update - 15 minutes
* Bug Scrub - Remainder of the time. [ This didn't work out - if you
have specific items which need debate please bring it up. If you would
like to contribute, please select a bug that sounds interesting and send
a mail asking for help if needed. ]
* Ed W. asked for a follow-up on M2 MD-SAL goals.

*What was Done:*

* Datastore performance improvements (multiple patches, being submitted
as we go) - restructures the data store for clarity. (Robert Varga)
* Bug 1120 - binding independent notification completely lock free and
most of the time doesn't allocate any objects. (Robert)
* Bug 724 - Hashcode Equals in Instance Identifier (Tom P)
* Merged issue that resolves problem with whitespace in RPC call input
(Tom P)
* Xtend code was removed from a number of places

*What will be done (Whats planned):*

*
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/OpenDaylight_Controller:MD-SAL:Architecture:Clustered_Data_Store
(https://bugs.opendaylight.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1052)

`  - continuing with proof of concept work. Would like to demo something next week (Moiz)`

* Introduction of transaction chaining (Tony) - patches are in

` - In code review. Merge depends on other committers.`

* Xtend code is slowly being removed from a number of places.

* On going - documenting yangtools and md-sal API - documenting one
package a day (Tony) Look up api-clarity topic of gerrit patches to find
this documentation.
* working on a jquery style interface into MD-SAL - ability to do faster
/ lookups on dom tree -colindixon - working with intern neil_b
* new regression test suite which will contain new models which will
help with tricky testing situations - augmentation etc. ( Martin V. )
Patches on code review.

*Blocking Issues:*

* Waiting on getting code merged to main - [ Tom P to add lists ]

`  - What do we need to do to get code committer?` +
`       - Assign a committer to review the issue once you are done - that way committer can see it listed in their "changes".` +
`       - Who is actively committing MD-SAL code to Controller? Tony, Ed Warnicke, Rob Varga         -  YangTools? RobVarga, Tony` +
`  - Proposal: Stick a "DO NOT MERGE" in front of patch that is not ready to be looked at.  `

*Other Topics:* None

* '''Recording: '''

No recording of last week.

* *Minutes*

Minutes:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/weekly_md_sal_call/opendaylight-meeting-weekly_md_sal_call.2014-06-03-16.06.html
Minutes (text):
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/weekly_md_sal_call/opendaylight-meeting-weekly_md_sal_call.2014-06-03-16.06.txt
Log:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/weekly_md_sal_call/opendaylight-meeting-weekly_md_sal_call.2014-06-03-16.06.log.html

[[may-27th-2014]]
==== May 27th, 2014

Scheduled:

* Status Update - 15 minutes
** What do we complete last week?
** What are we planning to complete this week?
** Are you blocked (need help) on anything? (helps if you open an
ask.opendaylight.com question if you are blocked so we can track)
* Demo the Akka Clustering Prototype (Moiz) - 40 Minutes

*What was Done:*

* ietf-restconf (/modules and /streams) (Devin Avery)
* Bug 990, where enum types are not getting translated between binding
aware / binding independent correctly - Martin is looking at these
issues – The fix was merged just before the call. - Martin Bobak
* Datastore performance improvements (multiple patches, being submitted
as we go) - restructures the data store for clarity. (Robert Varga)
\{some merged in, more to come}
* Bug 1010 - Return from Restconf the errors as defined in the ieft
draft (Tom Pantelis)
* Netconf connector – return the netconf errors back in the rpc result
(allow the RPC errors to be passed through). (Tom Pantelis)
* waiting on a parent patch.

*What will be done (Whats planned):*

* Datastore performance improvements (multiple patches, being submitted
as we go) - restructures the data store for clarity. (Robert Varga)
*
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/OpenDaylight_Controller:MD-SAL:Architecture:Clustered_Data_Store
(https://bugs.opendaylight.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1052)
* Introduction of transaction chaining (Tony) - patches are in
* On going - documenting yangtools and md-sal API - documenting one
package a day (Tony) Look up api-clarity topic of gerrit patches to find
this documentation.
* working on a jquery style interface into MD-SAL - ability to do faster
/ lookups on dom tree -colindixon - working with intern neil_b
* new regression test suite which will contain new models which will
help with tricky testing situations - augmentation etc. ( Martin V. )

*Blocking Issues:*

*
https://ask.opendaylight.org/question/99/how-does-request-routing-works/
[Need confirmation that underlying issue was resolved] - Tony will
follow
* If you have two different vendors, and you want to create a vlan, the
consumer will issue the same command, how does it get routed to the
correct plug based on the node. Is there some flag? -Tony and Shoaib
will follow-up off line - [Need to confirm that this issue is resolved]
* Request to do a bug triage to see what bugs are valid, need to be
worked etc [Triage / bug scrub] - proposal to have a scrub next week

*Other Topics:* "What is preventing from using MD-SAL?" -

` * Survey Monkey? ` +
` * Need to figure out who is willing to work on stuff?` +
` * Some items should be discussed. Statement of work for an item may change after we discuss (particular performance).` +
` * Suggest opening a bug zilla ticket for each item in the list so we can discuss them in detail and track discussion [ unless someone objects ]` +
`      * Ask.opendaylight.org ( or something similar?)` +
`      * example: scala discussion - open as bug or on the mailing list? No "bug" associated, so different problem.`

* '''Recording: '''

https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/url/eDAvgQyS3hPw7JmZdIL2M6KwVmKRY-iSdr_NGzFQzcO00000

* *Minutes*
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_weekly_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_weekly_call.2014-05-27-16.05.html[HTML]
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_weekly_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_weekly_call.2014-05-27-16.05.txt[Test]
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_weekly_call/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_weekly_call.2014-05-27-16.05.log.html[Log]

[[may-20th-2014]]
==== May 20th, 2014

*What was Done:*
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1O5PxEM1eLszMuWf9M11AD5w7siT9vHOkzR85gjCB-6c/edit#gid=322436364

* Call mounted RPC calls via RestConf
* Binding Aware builders have been improved in terms of memory
efficiency ( should be 48 bytes less)
* Stability issues and correctness issues fixed over last week – some
coming from openFlow plugins
* 100% testing all OF13 integration tests

*What will be done (Whats planned):*

* Bug 1010 - Return from Restconf the errors as defined in the ieft
draft (Tom Pantelis)
* ietf-restconf (/modules and /streams) (Devin Avery)
* Netconf connector – return the netconf errors back in the rpc result
(allow the RPC errors to be passed through). (Tom Pantelis)
* waiting on a parent patch.
* Bug 990, where enum types are not getting translated between binding
aware / binding independent correctly - Martin is looking at these
issues – The fix was merged just before the call. - Martin Bobak
* Datastore performance improvements (multiple patches, being submitted
as we go) - restructures the data store for clarity. (Robert Varga)
*
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/OpenDaylight_Controller:MD-SAL:Architecture:Clustered_Data_Store
(https://bugs.opendaylight.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1052)

*Blocking Issues:*

*
https://ask.opendaylight.org/question/99/how-does-request-routing-works/
- Tony will follow
* If you have two different vendors, and you want to create a vlan, the
consumer will issue the same command, how does it get routed to the
correct plug based on the node. Is there some flag? -Tony and Shoaib
will follow-up off line

*Other Topics:* Any thing else big coming down the pipe?

* Clusting MD-SAL (How, when, architecture etc) - (Jake Samash) – Akka
clusting, rest api’s, clustered data store.
* Also clustering the features, so we could provide a registered OSGI
service, and then deploy different features to different nodes and
potentially cluster the controller.

[[historical-meeting-minutes-prior-to-may-20th]]
= Historical Meeting Minutes (Prior to May 20th)

[[may-6-2014-infinispan-in-memory-data-store-prototype]]
=== May 6, 2014: Infinispan In-Memory Data Store Prototype

* *Minutes*:
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_weekly_meeting/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_weekly_meeting.2014-05-06-16.13.html[Minutes]
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_weekly_meeting/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_weekly_meeting.2014-05-06-16.13.txt[Minutes(txt)]
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/md_sal_weekly_meeting/opendaylight-meeting-md_sal_weekly_meeting.2014-05-06-16.13.log.html[Minutes(raw)]
*
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=ee9b23edb5fd449da213d7f3a83e2042[WebExRecording]
* OpenDaylight_Controller:MD-SAL:The Infinispan Data Store[Prototype
wiki]
* https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/#/c/5900/[Prototype code]

[[april-29-2014-inocybe-dat-store-update-md-sal-archetype-resctonf-tool]]
=== April 29, 2014: Inocybe dat store update, MD-SAL Archetype, RESCTONF
Tool

*
https:///cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=0e025c295c004d238f3c3a016b8c3318[WebEx
Recording]

[[april-22-2014-karaf-container]]
=== April 22, 2014: Karaf Container

*
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=ea008e89723b4f0fa64204d78d5a5146[WebEx
Recording]

[[april-15-2014-apic-presentation-part-ii]]
=== April 15, 2014: APIC Presentation Part II

* *Minutes*:
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-15-16.07.html[Minutes]
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-15-16.07.txt[Minutes(txt)]
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-15-16.07.log.html[Minutes(raw)]
*
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=108032230c024db6b4d037f6d1fda5e1[WebEx
Recording]
* *Notes from Part I (TWS Call on April 4, 2014):*
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-14-17.07.html[Minutes]
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-14-17.07.txt[Minutes
(text)]
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-14-17.07.log.html[Log]
* *Presentation*:
image:APIC Presentation 04-13-2014.pdf[APIC Presentation 04-13-2014.pdf,title="fig:APIC Presentation 04-13-2014.pdf"]

[[april-8-2014-md-sal-akka-prototype]]
=== April 8, 2014: MD-SAL Akka Prototype

* *Minutes*:
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-08-16.09.html[Minutes]
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-08-16.09.txt[Minutes(txt)]
**
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-meeting/2014/opendaylight-meeting.2014-04-08-16.09.log.html[Minutes(raw)]
*
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=8a19ade66f0f49daaae57886e3305af2[WebEx
Recording]
* *Presentation*:
image:MD-SAL Akka Prototype.pdf[MD-SAL Akka Prototype.pdf,title="fig:MD-SAL Akka Prototype.pdf"]

[[april-1-2014-data-store-performance-improvements-demo]]
=== April 1, 2014: Data Store Performance Improvements Demo

*
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=43af95c195404d10bba1f57a63049f1a%20[WebEx
recording]

