[[may-28-2014]]
== May 28, 2014

[[announcements-reminders]]
=== Announcements / Reminders

* Once I have a stable point with the Managed Object DB I will be
pushing to the public Github: https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/opflex
* Rave night at Noiro Office 5/29/2014

[[development-status]]
=== Development Status

* All three compments (MODB, Policy Enforcement,and Policy Management)
are under development.
* OpFlex python simulator built, and waiting for further protocol
development.

[[bugs]]
=== Bugs

* Nothing yet.
* You bugzilla project has been created with an initial component of
'General'. If you want other components or that one renamed please let
us know. All bugs created in it will be auto-assigned & Cc'ed to
bugs@lists.opendaylight.org it will hit the list appropriately
configured as a topic based email.

[[architecture-discussion]]
=== Architecture Discussion

* Please read: https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Opflex_Architecture

[[open-discussion]]
=== Open Discussion

* Discussed the integration points between the PM and MODB and PE.
* Discussion of how the MODB is built (or being built as it were).

[[june-4-2014]]
== June 4, 2014

* Attendies:
** dkehn:Noiro, smann:Noiro, a_le:Noiro, Youcef:Citrix, Abilash:Cisco,
s3wong:Midokura, Satyendra:Citrix

[[announcements-reminders-1]]
=== Announcements / Reminders

* All papers for Linux con have been accepted.

[[development-status-1]]
=== Development Status

* Working through Jenkins issue in order to get the code base into the
ODL gitHub.

[[bugs-1]]
=== Bugs

* Nothing yet.
* You bugzilla project has been created with an initial component of
'General'. If you want other components or that one renamed please let
us know. All bugs created in it will be auto-assigned & Cc'ed to
bugs@lists.opendaylight.org it will hit the list appropriately
configured as a topic based email.

[[architecture-discussion-1]]
=== Architecture Discussion

* Please read: https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Opflex_Architecture
* Overview walk through the development structure.
* Question and answers.

[[open-discussion-1]]
=== Open Discussion

[[june-11-2014]]
== June 11, 2014

* Attendies:
** dkehn:Noiro, smann:Noiro, a_le:Noiro, Youcef:Citrix, Abilash:Cisco,
s3wong:Midokura

[[announcements-reminders-2]]
=== Announcements / Reminders

* The opflex code has landed into the ODL Github and Gerrit and Jenkins
are running.
** https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=opflex.git;a=summary
** https://jenkins.opendaylight.org/opflex/[Jenkins]
**
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/#/q/status:open+project:opflex,n,z[gerrit]

[[development-status-2]]
=== Development Status

* Discussion concerning JSONRPC 1.0 vs RESTAPI.

[[bugs-2]]
=== Bugs

* Nothing yet.
* Your bugzilla project has been created with an initial component of
'General'. If you want other components or that one renamed please let
us know. All bugs created in it will be auto-assigned & Cc'ed to
bugs@lists.opendaylight.org it will hit the list appropriately
configured as a topic based email.

[[architecture-discussion-2]]
=== Architecture Discussion

* Please read: https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Opflex_Architecture
* Overview walk through the development structure.
* Question and answers.

[[open-discussion-2]]
=== Open Discussion

[[june-18-2014]]
== June 18, 2014

* Attendies:
** dkehn:Noiro, smann:Noiro, a_le:Noiro, Youcef:Citrix,
s3wong:Midokura:mia

[[announcements-reminders-3]]
=== Announcements / Reminders

* The opflex code has landed into the ODL Github and Gerrit and Jenkins
are running.
** https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=opflex.git;a=summary
** https://jenkins.opendaylight.org/opflex/[Jenkins]
**
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/#/q/status:open+project:opflex,n,z[gerrit]

[[development-status-3]]
=== Development Status

* The MODB should reach initial features by the end of the week, which
doesn't mean it's complete. There are still a considerable number of
features that are intended before initial release, versioning, etc..
* The Policy Enforcer (PE), is evolving to a point that the initial
process flows are being discussed and developments are being made.
Initial pass will be to implement monitoring using OF and OVSDB
interactions.
* The Policy Management (PM) layer is still in flux.

[[bugs-3]]
=== Bugs

* Nothing yet.
* Your bugzilla project has been created with an initial component of
'General'. If you want other components or that one renamed please let
us know. All bugs created in it will be auto-assigned & Cc'ed to
bugs@lists.opendaylight.org it will hit the list appropriately
configured as a topic based email.

[[architecture-discussion-3]]
=== Architecture Discussion

* Please read: https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Opflex_Architecture
* Overview walk through the development structure.
* Question and answers.

[[open-discussion-3]]
=== Open Discussion

[[june-25-2014]]
== June 25, 2014

* Attendies:
** dkehn:Noiro, smann:Noiro, keith:Noiro, s3wong:Midokura:mia

[[announcements-reminders-4]]
=== Announcements / Reminders

* The opflex code base has been re-rog such that the third-party now has
ovs directory where all the lib and ovsdb code for those libraries is
located.
** https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=opflex.git;a=summary
** https://jenkins.opendaylight.org/opflex/[Jenkins]
**
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/#/q/status:open+project:opflex,n,z[gerrit]

[[development-status-4]]
=== Development Status

* The MODB has reached a place where we are going to park it for a bit,
and I am proceeding to work on the PM layer & OpFlex protocol session
handlers.
* The Policy Enforcer (PE): got a prototype ovsdb-based monitor working
and realized that opflex needs to link directly to OVS libraries;
working on that now.
* The Policy Management (PM) layer is being designed and developed
presently.
* We will update the design document when time permits.

[[bugs-4]]
=== Bugs

* Nothing yet.
* Your bugzilla project has been created with an initial component of
'General'. If you want other components or that one renamed please let
us know. All bugs created in it will be auto-assigned & Cc'ed to
bugs@lists.opendaylight.org it will hit the list appropriately
configured as a topic based email.

[[architecture-discussion-4]]
=== Architecture Discussion

* Please read: https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Opflex_Architecture
* Overview walk through the development structure.
* Question and answers.

[[open-discussion-4]]
=== Open Discussion

[[july-2-2014]]
== July 2, 2014

* Attendies:
** dkehn:Noiro, smann:Noiro, keith:Noiro

[[announcements-reminders-5]]
=== Announcements / Reminders

* ** https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=opflex.git;a=summary
** https://jenkins.opendaylight.org/opflex/[Jenkins]
**
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/#/q/status:open+project:opflex,n,z[gerrit]

[[development-status-5]]
=== Development Status

*
* We will update the design document when time permits.

[[bugs-5]]
=== Bugs

* Nothing yet.
* Your bugzilla project has been created with an initial component of
'General'. If you want other components or that one renamed please let
us know. All bugs created in it will be auto-assigned & Cc'ed to
bugs@lists.opendaylight.org it will hit the list appropriately
configured as a topic based email.

[[architecture-discussion-5]]
=== Architecture Discussion

* Please read: https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Opflex_Architecture
* Overview walk through the development structure.
* Question and answers.

[[open-discussion-5]]
=== Open Discussion

* Abilash is going to focus on the Cisco N3K integration.
** Abilash will explore the development environment in which the N3K
consists and which would be the bext way to proceed.

[[july-9-2014]]
== July 9, 2014

[[announcements-reminders-6]]
=== Announcements / Reminders

* https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=opflex.git;a=summary
* Jenkins
* gerrit

[[development-status-6]]
=== Development Status

* We will update the design document when time permits.
* Yousef requested a overview including a code walk through of the MODB
eventing API for next week's meeting.

[[bugs-6]]
=== Bugs

* Nothing yet.
* Your bugzilla project has been created with an initial component of
'General'. If you want other components or that one renamed please let
us know. All bugs created in it will be auto-assigned & Cc'ed to
bugs@lists.opendaylight.org it will hit the list appropriately
configured as a topic based email.

[[architecture-discussion-6]]
=== Architecture Discussion

* Please read: https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Opflex_Architecture
* Overview walk through the development structure.
* Question and answers.

[[open-discussion-6]]
=== Open Discussion

[[july-16-2014]]
== July 16, 2014

[[announcements-reminders-7]]
=== Announcements / Reminders

* https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=opflex.git;a=summary
* Jenkins
* gerrit

[[development-status-7]]
=== Development Status

* We will update the design document when time permits.
* Code walk through of the MODB and MODB Event sub-system.

[[bugs-7]]
=== Bugs

* Nothing yet.
* Your bugzilla project has been created with an initial component of
'General'. If you want other components or that one renamed please let
us know. All bugs created in it will be auto-assigned & Cc'ed to
bugs@lists.opendaylight.org it will hit the list appropriately
configured as a topic based email.

[[architecture-discussion-7]]
=== Architecture Discussion

* Please read: https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Opflex_Architecture
* Overview walk through the development structure.
* Question and answers.

[[open-discussion-7]]
=== Open Discussion

[[july-23-2014]]
== July 23, 2014

[[announcements-reminders-8]]
=== Announcements / Reminders

* https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=opflex.git;a=summary
* Jenkins
* gerrit

[[development-status-8]]
=== Development Status

* We will update the design document when time permits.
*

[[bugs-8]]
=== Bugs

* Nothing yet.
* Your bugzilla project has been created with an initial component of
'General'. If you want other components or that one renamed please let
us know. All bugs created in it will be auto-assigned & Cc'ed to
bugs@lists.opendaylight.org it will hit the list appropriately
configured as a topic based email.

[[architecture-discussion-8]]
=== Architecture Discussion

* Please read: https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Opflex_Architecture
* Overview walk through the development structure.
* Question and answers.

[[open-discussion-8]]
=== Open Discussion

[[july-30-2014]]
== July 30, 2014

[[announcements-reminders-9]]
=== Announcements / Reminders

* https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=opflex.git;a=summary
* Jenkins
* gerrit

[[development-status-9]]
=== Development Status

* We will update the design document when time permits.
* Policy Management:
** streams complete , at present only tested TCP - pushed to the repo.
** working on the session management layer
*** open/close and the infrastructure in place and tested - pushed to
the repo.
** serializer/deserialzer (JSON) in place not test fully.
** Next OpFlex.......
* Policy Enforcer
** Basic infrastructure to support MODB interface
** Additional tests for translation and commands
** Scan using libvirt API

[[bugs-9]]
=== Bugs

* Nothing yet.
* Your bugzilla project has been created with an initial component of
'General'. If you want other components or that one renamed please let
us know. All bugs created in it will be auto-assigned & Cc'ed to
bugs@lists.opendaylight.org it will hit the list appropriately
configured as a topic based email.

[[architecture-discussion-9]]
=== Architecture Discussion

* Please read: https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Opflex_Architecture
* Overview walk through the development structure.
* Question and answers.

[[open-discussion-9]]
=== Open Discussion
