*Note that a useful discussion of this proposed execution plan can be
found in the
https://lists.opendaylight.org/pipermail/discuss/2013-May/thread.html#113[May
Discuss Mailing List Archives] starting with "[OpenDaylight Discuss]
Proposal for next steps for the Dixon-Erickson merged controller plan"*

`An Execution Plan for the Dixon-Erickson Merged Controller Proposal` +
`Rob Sherwood, May 12 2013`

[[executive-summary]]
= Executive Summary

The Open Daylight Project (www.opendaylight.org) has two “SDN
Controller” code bases with some overlapping functionality. It is the
strong belief of the community that a single code base is needed in
order to best focus efforts and as a result, a number of proposals to
merge the two code bases have been made. After some discussion, it seems
that the differences between two of the proposals -- the original
Dixon-Erickson (“D-E”) proposal and the concerns raised in the proposal
by Rob Sherwood-- should be resolvable over time. This document is an
attempt to propose the next concrete steps for how to act on the D-E
proposal and for resolving the issues raised. It includes specific
technical and procedural next steps as well as specific motions that the
TSC would be encouraged to consider. We hope that by providing such a
highly detailed plan, we can both avoid past misunderstandings and
ultimately make faster progress towards our common goal of a viable
best-of-breed controller project. In particular, a successful resolution
for the controller project will allow the sizable and pre-existing
Floodlight community to be compatible with OpenDaylight avoiding
dividing the communities.

[[timeline-and-background]]
= Timeline and Background

* 4/8 Two controller code bases were brought into the Open Daylight
Project in the bootstrap state
** From Cisco, the “Open Daylight Controller” (controller.git)
*** All code was developed internally by Cisco
*** We will abbreviate as “ODC”
*** Code first public available on 4/10 (after passing IPR review)
** From Big Switch, the “Open SDN Platform” (net-virt-plaform.git)
*** The code was a combination of the existing floodlight open source
repository and Big Switch’s BNC and BVS commercial products
*** We will abbreviate as “NVC”
*** Code first publicly available on 4/17 (after passing IPR review)
* 4/30 Rob Sherwood proposed a ‘strawman’ integration strategy
**
https://lists.opendaylight.org/pipermail/discuss/2013-April/000044.html
* 5/6 Colin Dixon and David Erickson posted their proposal for how to
merge controllers
** https://lists.opendaylight.org/pipermail/discuss/2013-May/000067.html
* 5/9 Rob Sherwood posted a modification to the D-E proposal that
proposed to make the SAL optional
** https://lists.opendaylight.org/pipermail/discuss/2013-May/000089.html
* 5/11 David Erickson proposed using a neutral third repository to host
the merged project
** https://lists.opendaylight.org/pipermail/discuss/2013-May/000102.html
* 5/12 Version 1 of this document was posted

[[background]]
= Background

The D-E proposal described a high-level view of how a merged
best-of-breed controller would work but did not get into the next levels
of detail. At the next level of detail, a number of discussion points
arise that need to be resolved. Many of these details surrounded the
Service Abstraction Layer (SAL --
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/OpenDaylight_Controller:SAL_Infrastructure
), which is intended to provide an abstration layer over all southbound
protocols for controller network devices.

The crux of the discussions raised between the D-E and Sherwood
proposals had to do with the relative importance of the architectural
purity of the System Abstraction Layer (SAL) versus the practical
realities of occasionally needing to bypass an abstraction layer for the
sake of performance, feature velocity, etc. The D-E proposal claimed
that use of the SAL should be mandatory and the Sherwood proposal
claimed that the SAL should be optional. Additional differences included
the implicit temporal aspect of when the porting to the SAL would begin
and this is where Rob and Colin had a misunderstanding. Rob’s 5/9
proposal was concerned about how the SAL is today because his team (not
to mention the larger floodlight community) wants to be unblocked and
start coding ASAP, while Colin explained that the D-E proposal made the
assumption that the controller merging efforts would be done on a future
SAL that could exist in, for example, six months time, rather than the
one that exists today. It is also worth noting that understanding the
SAL and the implications of using it is a work in progress for everyone,
so our group understanding of its capabilities and the requirements upon
it continue to evolve over time.

[[steps-to-identify-and-resolve-next-step-technical-hurdles]]
= Steps to Identify and Resolve Next-Step Technical Hurdles

We propose the following short and long-term steps to identify and
resolve these issues.

[[short-term-efforts]]
== Short Term Efforts

[[identifying-and-resolving-short-term-sal-improvements]]
=== Identifying and Resolving Short-term SAL Improvements

There seems to be a lot of “low hanging fruit” to fix in the SAL. To
that end, we have created a wiki page to track proposed updates, the
discussion around them, and possible solutions.

Proposed_Updates_to_the_SAL

As our understanding of the SAL increased, this list will grow, but as
the maturity of the SAL increases, hopefully this list will equivalently
shrink. For these specific concerns, it is our belief that they can be
addressed quickly, but do need to be addressed if we are to unblock
porting of the existing applications from the larger floodlight
community.

While the wiki link will be the complete and definitive list of
concerns, a small number of example concerns include:

The SAL is missing abstractions for:

* TTL decrement
* 6 of the 12 OpenFlow 1.0 match fields (e.g., in_port, outer vlan tag,
vlan_pcp, IP protocol, IP ToS, etc.)
* no NextHop action needed for routing protocols like BGP
* Multiple tables
* Master/Slave notifications between controller and node for HA
* Master/Slave notifications inside the controller (for Apps in the
slave node to wake up)

Additionally, there are a number of existing abstractions which have
incomplete functionality:

* The Host.java does not allow for hosts with multiple IPs or duplicate
MACs needed for multi-tenancy
* The topology service does not have the notion of SDN vs. non-SDN
islands and the current code implicitly assumes a pure SDN network

[[unblocking-immediate-contributions-ioctl-for-sal]]
=== Unblocking Immediate Contributions: ioctl() for SAL

It seems highly desirable that programmers who want to start coding ASAP
not block on the SAL being updated. We make the observation that almost
every API we can think of (e.g., ioctl() across the user/kernel space
boundaries, dropping from C to ASM, dropping from python to C, etc.) has
some sort of ‘escape mechanism’ for working around the API when
necessary. We claim that the SAL needs a similar ioctl()-like interface
for bypassing the SAL API when none of the other interfaces will suffice
and it’s deemed onerous to change the API. Usage of the ioctl()
interface should be discouraged wherever possible, especially in the
network services in the controller project. That said, we believe that a
short term ‘escape mechanism’ to get across the SAL is a necessary
practical device to unblock short term contributions before a more
generic extension mechanism can be created (see below).

[[new-and-merged-component-tiger-teams]]
== New and Merged Component Tiger Teams

The D-E plan calls for a number of components to be individually best of
breed between two roughly comparable components. We have created wiki
entries to document the merging of the following components that need to
be merged between the two code bases and the modules that need to be
creately newly from scratch. Hopefully the community will join in and
form 2-3 person “tiger teams” and organize around the individual
component discussions.

[[new-components-suggested-by-the-d-e-proposal]]
=== New Components Suggested by the D-E Proposal

* Consistent data store
* Structured log service
* Thread pool service (likely find existing third party library)

[[merged-components-suggested-by-the-d-e-proposal]]
=== Merged Components Suggested by the D-E Proposal

* topology/link discovery
* path computation
* node/controller statistics
* runtime configuration module

[[longer-term-efforts]]
== Longer Term Efforts

[[review-and-revise-sal-consistency-assumptions-and-apis]]
=== Review and Revise SAL Consistency Assumptions and APIs

The biggest and hardest to resolve concern about the SAL is that it
seems to assume a number of strong consistency semantics which makes it
hard (if not impossible) to use in environments that do not allow for
strong consistency (e.g., across a WAN where partitions may happen). In
particular, many of the APIs seem to assume that events are ordered or
that partitions won’t happen. These concerns are described in more
detail

[[specifying-inter-project-sal-extensions]]
=== Specifying Inter-Project SAL Extensions

In order for the SAL to be successful, it seems that being modular and
extensible are important. More specifically, if the SAL lives in the one
project, another project should be able to extend the SAL's interface
without modifying the code in the SAL's project. While such a mechanism
does not yet exist, proposals are starting to emerge, including the
Yang-based model drive SAL presented last week. Resolving this sooner
will reduce the dependency on the ioctl()-like mechanism.

[[steps-to-resolve-procedural-hurdles]]
= Steps to Resolve Procedural Hurdles

In addition to technical challenges, there are also procedural hurdles
that have to be resolved as well. This plan execute on the next steps of
the suggestions made by David Erickson in his 5/10 proposal (above).

[[create-a-jointly-proposed-new-controller-project]]
== Create a Jointly Proposed New Controller Project

[[identify-all-parties-who-have-contributed-code-to-the-controller-projects]]
=== Identify all parties who have contributed code to the controller
projects

* Cisco:
* BSN
* IBM
* Stanford
* Others?

[[have-interested-parties-agree-upon]]
=== Have interested parties agree upon:

* New project name
* Committer structure
** Proposal: Initial committers proportional to lines of code (see
Appendix A)
* Conflict resolution strategy: e.g., what fraction of committers to
accept a patch?
* Document code acceptance policies a priori

[[interested-parties-jointly-propose-a-new-controller-project-via-the-life-cycle-process]]
=== Interested parties jointly propose a new controller project via the
life cycle process

* Likely into incubation state
* All other aspects of the project would continue as per the project
life cycle document

[[gracefully-sunset-the-two-existing-bootstrapped-controller-projects]]
=== Gracefully sunset the two existing bootstrapped controller projects

Upon agreement of interested parties and projects, we should:

* wind down the older mailing lists via general announcements
* port outstanding bugs to new bugtracker
* auto-invite old mailing list subscribers to new mailing lists
* start adapting wiki page documentation to the new project name
* other activities?

[[work-to-coordinate-with-the-floodlight-community]]
=== Work to Coordinate with the Floodlight Community

The floodlight community (http://projectfloodlight.org) contains an
active membership and a growing number of commercial products that
depend on it. The goal of creating a unified community among Open
Daylight members should be inclusive of external projects like
Floodlight. We should work to ease the transition between the two groups
including API-compatibility, converged mailing list, and “transitioning
from Floodlight” focused developer documentation.

[[recommendations-to-the-tsc]]
= Recommendations to the TSC

Once all the affected parties have agreed and the appropriate motions
have been made: Accept the newly formed controller project (name TBD)
into ‘incubation’ state At the appropriate time, move both the existing
“controller” and “net-virt-platform” bootstrap projects into the
‘archived’ state

[[appendix-a-lines-of-code-counting]]
= Appendix A: Lines of Code Counting

[[intent-and-methodology]]
== Intent and Methodology

Rough order of magnitude approximations only -- everything else is
arguable Count “human written code” but don’t stress too much DO: count
Java, Python, Javascript (don’t worry about comments for now) DON’T:
count build infrastructure (Makefiles, Maven files), HTML, or
documentation Start from freshly checked out repositories to avoid
auto-generated or auto-downloaded code find $dir -name \*.py -o -name
\*.java -o -name \*.js | xargs wc -l Counts done on 5/11

[[loc-per-contributing-party]]
== LOC Per Contributing Party

Cisco: ODC/opendaylight (but without IBM’s loadbalancer) -- 124639 total
(~29%) IBM: ODC/samples/northbound/loadbalancer -- 47268 total (~11%) --
does IBM have other code contributed? BSN: net-virt-platform -- 246552
total (~57%) Including 13875 lines are in the netvirt application and
will be moved to a separate repository shortly Stanford: OpenFlowJ: from
ODC’s ./third-party/openflowj repo: -- 11389 total (~3%) Total Code:
429848 LOC
