[[proposed-life-cycle-changes]]
= Proposed Life Cycle Changes

* Sponsors: Big Switch Network (add yourself!)

[[posting-reviews]]
== 2.3 (Posting Reviews)

CURRENT 4. Reviews may in some circumstances be combined (for example a
creation and graduation review) for a project seeking to come into
Daylight that is already mature in its previous venue). Note, if reviews
are combined, the review document need only go through a single 2 week
review period (ie, if project combines graduation and promotion review,
it need not wait 4 weeks, just the 2).

PROPOSED 4. Reviews may in some circumstances be combined (for example a
creation and graduation review) for a project seeking to come into
Daylight that is already mature in its previous venue). Note, if reviews
are combined, the review period is the aggregate of review periods for
each of the combined stages. For example, if project combines graduation
and promotion review, it needs to wait 2+2 = 4 weeks).

[[e-graduation-review]]
== 2.3.1.e (Graduation review)

CURRENT Committers identified

PROPOSED The project committers admitting at least three additional
committers not from the originating company

[[new-2.3.1.h]]
== (new) 2.3.1.h

PROPOSED The project having accepted patches from non-originator company
contributors.

[[c-graduation-review]]
== 2.3.2.1c (Graduation review)

CURRENT History of Releases (using Mature Release Process)

PROPOSED History of releases within an open source governance model,
using a Mature Release process. The project must show that it can issue
releases within an open governance model, with major contributions by a
set of diverse committers.

[[new-2.3.3.1a-graduation-review]]
== (new) 2.3.3.1a (Graduation review)

PROPOSED Real-world users. This project must be demonstrated to be used
by a commercial or research entity towards a useful implementation of
SDN that solves real-world problems.

[[another-attempt-at-committer-diversity-requirements]]
== Another attempt at Committer Diversity Requirements

* proposed by Chris Wright

[[reviews]]
=== 2.3 Reviews

[[promotion-review]]
==== 2.3.3 Promotion Review

Proposed addition:

1.b Diverse Community of Committers and Contributors

I believe this captures the spirit of the +3non-company-of-origin idea
w/out specifying numbers, leaving the TSC to apply appropriate judgement
as per "Vendor Neutrality" and "Active Community."

[[minor-typo-in-bootstrap-process]]
== Minor typo in Bootstrap Process

* proposed by Chris Wright

[[bootstrap-process]]
=== 6 Bootstrap Process

CURRENT 2. If a project enters is in 'bootstrap' state...

PROPOSED 2. If a project enters in 'bootstrap' state...

[[clarification-of-bootstrap-process]]
== Clarification of Bootstrap Process

* proposed by Paul McKenney and Chris Wright

(note: this renders above typo fix obsolete) (note: this is largerly
clarifying, a minor change in the need for project to accept/deny TSC
position w/in one 1wk)

[[bootstrap-process-1]]
=== 6 Bootstrap Process

CURRENT At the time of the formation of the OpenDaylight Foundation,
there are expected to be several initial projects contributed. These
initial projects will come in at various levels of maturity. In order to
sort these projects into the most appropriate Project Lifecycle state in
a way that is clear, consistent, and fair:

\1. Prior to a date to be decided by the TSC in its first meeting not
less than 1 month and not more than 6 months after OpenDaylight launch a
projects may decide to either a. Seek entry in 'bootstrap' state
(explained more below) b. Seek entry via the steady state Project
Lifecycle (ie, propose for Incubation)

\2. If a project enters is in 'bootstrap' state, at the first meeting of
the official (post-formation) TSC after it petitions to exit bootstrap
state, the TSC will decide the proper Project Lifecycle state for the
project based on criteria rooted in the steady state Project Lifecycle.

\3. Once in a non-bootstrap state a project follows the steady state
Project Lifecycle.

PROPOSED At the time of the formation of the OpenDaylight Foundation,
there are expected to be several initial projects contributed. These
initial projects will come in at various levels of maturity. In order to
sort these projects into the most appropriate Project Lifecycle state in
a way that is clear, consistent, and fair:

\1. The TSC will choose a bootstrap-request deadline. This deadline
shall not be earlier than one month after OpenDaylight launch, nor shall
it be later than six months after launch. Given that OpenDaylight launch
occurred on April 8, 2013, the range of possible deadlines extends from
May 8, 2013 to October 8, 2013. (The TSC selected a 3-month deadline,
which maps to July 8, 2013.)

\2. At any time prior to the bootstrap-request deadline, a project may
request entry into bootstrap state. Please note that projects may
alternatively elect to follow the steady-state Project Lifecycle by
creating a proposal for Incubation. Bootstrap state is not a
requirement, but is instead an additional option that is available prior
to the bootstrap-request deadline.

\3. At its first meeting after receiving a bootstrap request, the TSC
will decide whether or not the project should be permitted to enter
bootstrap state.

\4. A project in bootstrap state may petition to exit bootstrap state.
This petition will preferably request entry into a given Project
Lifecycle state, but it may also elect to leave choice of the Project
Lifecycle state to the TSC's discretion.

\5. At the first meeting following a bootstrap-exit petition, the TSC
will make a decision on the petition: a. Leave the project in bootstrap
state, or b. Select the proper Project Lifecycle state for the project
based on the steady-state Project Lifecycle criteria.

This meeting will preferably include representatives of the project.
However, these representatives do not have a vote unless they are
already TSC members.

\6. The project has one week following the TSC's decision to either
accept that decision or to elect to remain in bootstrap state.

\7. After a given project enters a non-bootstrap state, that project
follows the steady state Project Lifecycle.
