Welcome to the OpenDaylight Technical Steering Committee (TSC) Wiki.  This page hosts all information associated with the OpenDaylight TSC including meeting schedules, Agendas, and Minutes.  To see a list of who is on the TSC along with their Biographies, please go to the [http://www.opendaylight.org/project/governance/tsc TSC] page at [http://www.opendaylight.org OpenDaylight.org].

== Meeting Schedule and Logistics ==
TSC meetings are held weekly for two hours on Thursday mornings at 10:00am Pacific Daylight Time (-7:00 GMT).
To participate in the next meeting, please refer to the information below:

* Date and Time:  Thursday, May 23rd, 2013 10:00 am, Pacific Daylight Time (San Francisco, GMT-07:00) 
*Meeting URL:  https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/meetings/join?uuid=MA3SRND964PIX06V2LS3SXX3RE-9VIB

* Access Information
**Meeting number: 194 548 370
**Meeting password: This meeting does not require a password.

*Audio Connection
**1-855-244-8681 Call-in toll-free number (US/Canada)
**1-650-479-3207 Call-in toll number (US/Canada)
**Access code: 194 548 370

== Meeting Agenda ==
The next TSC meeting is scheduled for Thursday, May 30 at 10:00am PDT.  Agenda topics: 
<li> Agenda Bashing
<li> Administrivia
* Acceptance of minutes
* Others?
<li> Hackfest planning
* Help from Marketing to promote? (Vijoy)
* Next Hackfest (OSCON?)
<li> Proxy Voting (Tom Nadeau)
* Policy on alternates
<li> Project Lifecycle Update Proposals 
* Proposals (Chris, Rob, Rajeev, Others) 
<li> Simultaneous Release Schedule 
* Working back from Oct 1, what needs to be in place by when? This will give us a  framework for when/what we can consider to be part of first release. i.e., Integration test starts after Functional test, which starts after Code Freeze, which starts after CrossComponent integration, which starts after...
* Share with Marketing as soon as possible (Vijoy)
<li> Update/Status  on plan for collaborating on the next level of detail for the functional areas outlined in the DE proposal 
* See https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/D-E_Proposal:Host_Tracker_Plan
* Establish Wiki's and leads for the activity groups (Chris Price)?
* Groups --> Adaptor Bundle Approach?
<li> Others?

== Meeting Minutes ==
[[Media:TSC_2013-05-23_Minutes.pdf|May 23rd 2013 Draft:  Comments Welcome]]
* [https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/files/viewRecording?encryptData=0_BCFAB5272474B8B027A3155CC8F48C767FBDD6C051BB005802573D144FD439B473CE15A9F784C5C6EB6649CCB2FCBDB4824A6A4ADC466078DA999C6E2EDA241A4E3C89FCC5A625A1301F70901C6073D8_47D5A165247D6AAC575C99BB7F5A040C4EF2FD56 Link To Webex Recording]
* Comments
** <Your Comment Here>
[[Media:TSC_2013-05-16_Minutes.pdf|May 16th 2013]] <br>
[[Media:TSC_2013-05-09_Minutes_.pdf|May 9th 2013]] <br>
[[Media:TSC_2013-05-02_Minutes.pdf|May 2nd, 2013]] <br>
[[Media:TSC_042513_Minutes.pdf|April 25th, 2013]] <br>
[[Media:TSC_041813_Meeting_Minutes.pdf|April 18th, 2013]] <br>
[[Media:TSC_041013_Meeting_Minutes.pdf|April 10th, 2013]]
