[[design-overview]]
== Design Overview

TSDR Data Storage Service contains Data Storage Service, TSDRPersistence
Service and a bunch of TSDRPlugins as the implementation of
TSDRPersistence layer. In Lithium, we will provide HBaseTSDRPlugin for
HBase implementation.

Based on the common TSDR data model, TSDRPersistence service will
provide a set of generic APIs for storing, retrieving, deleting, and
aggregation of TSDR time series data.

[[component-interactions]]
== Component Interactions

The following diagram illustrates the interactions among various
components for TSDR Data Storage with a generic TSDRPersistenceService
and HBase plugin.
image:Sequence.png.png[Sequence.png.png,title="fig:Sequence.png.png"]

[[tsdr-data-model]]
== TSDR Data Model

The following diagram captures the TSDR common data model that is going
to be shared among various TSDR services including Data Storage,
Persistence, Data Query, Data Purging, and Data Aggregation.
image:TSDRDataModel.PNG[TSDRDataModel.PNG,title="fig:TSDRDataModel.PNG"]

[[data-storage-service]]
== Data Storage Service

Data Storage Service will be a MD-SAL service that contains RPC APIs for
Data Collection Service to call.

[[persistence-service]]
== Persistence Service

Persistence Service will be a Java service that is initialized when Data
Storage Service is initialized. During initialization, Persistence
Service will load the user configured plugin from XML files and
initialize the persistence plugin. For example, if the user configures
HBase, it will initialize an HBase plugin for TSDR data persistence. If
the user configures MySQL, it will initialize a MySQL plugin for TSDR
data persistence.

In Lithium, we will only support HBase as TSDR data store. In the future
releases, other data stores such as MySQL or Cassandra could be
supported.

[[tsdrpluginconfig-xml]]
=== TSDRPluginConfig XML

`   ` +
`       ` +
`          ` +
`       ` +
`   `

[[tsdrpersistence-apis]]
=== TSDRPersistence APIs

The following captures the APIs exposed from TSDRPersistenceService.

[cols=",,,,,,,,,,,,,,,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Interface Name |Description |-align="left" valign="top" |save(List,
tmodelList) |store one or a list of TSDRDataModel objects in persistence
Data Store |-align="left" valign="top" |find() |Query based on a list of
Keys and criteria. |-align="left" valign="top" |count() |Get the number
of rows in a table. |-align="left" valign="top" |delete() |delete with
one or a list of IDs. |-align="left" valign="top" |truncate() |truncate
a table. |-align="left" valign="top" |exists() |Query based on one or
list of IDs |-align="left" valign="top" |min(), max(), avg() |For Data
Aggregation purpose
|=======================================================================

Only the save() API will be implemented in Lithium for realizing TSDR
Data Storage features. If time allows, query APIs will also be
implemented to support Data Query Service in TSDR.

[[hbase-plugin]]
== HBase Plugin

When HBase Plugin is initialized, it will initialize the configuration
and connection pool to HBase server based on the parameters passed by
TSDRPersistenceService. The parameters are what included in
TSDRPersistenceConfig.xml. This includes the HBase server name, port
number and connection pool size. HBase Plugin will provide the actual
implementation of the TSDRPersistence APIs in HBase. For example, the
save(List tModelList) will convert the list of TSDRDataModel objects
into HBaseEntities and persist into HBase server.

The following shows the HBaseEntity class diagram.

image:HBaseEntitty.PNG[HBaseEntitty.PNG,title="HBaseEntitty.PNG"]

[[integration-with-odl-persistence-service]]
== Integration with ODL persistence service

With ODL persistence project moving forward, TSDR expects to leverage
ODL common persistence service to provide the capability for the user to
persist TSDR data into various data stores. Since ODL persistence
project is a parallel new ODL project in Lithium, this integration will
happen either within Lithium time frame or beyond Lithium time frame.

For TSDR HBase implementation, HBasePlugin will implement the data
persistence layer to satisfy TSDR requirement while keeping consistency
with the goal of ODL common persistence service. At some point, if we
see the possibility of merging HBase implementation in TSDR HBasePlugin
into ODL common persistence service, we will contribute the
implementation to ODL persistence service with necessary modifications.

[[high-availability-and-clustering-consideration]]
== High Availability and Clustering consideration

In Lithium, since we only support HBase single node, the high
availability and clustering is not going to be supported for TSDR.

In the next release, TSDR high availability and clustering will be
achieved through HBase clustering.

[[packaging-and-installation]]
== Packaging and Installation

HBase tar files will be bundled together with ODL to form a single tar
ball. When the user unzips the ODL installation file and untar the tar
ball, HBase will be installed on the localhost together with ODL.

TSDR features will contain HBaseClient and allow the user to install
from Karaf. When the user installs the DataStorage service from Karaf,
HBaseClient features will be installed as well. At the same time, the
following execution will happen on HBase server side:

1.  HBase server on localhost will be started automatically.
2.  HBase tables for TSDR will be created.

