[[composite-endpoint]]
== Composite Endpoint

A composite endpoint is a complete specification of an Endpoint to which
Intent can be applied. A composite Endpoint consists of a Boolean
expression consisting of operands (terms) and the Boolean operators:
and, or, not. Each operand is an attribute label or tag defined in one
or more Endpoint Descriptors (EPD). An Endpoint is then created from
using one or more EPDs that include these attribute labels.

image:CompositeEndpoint.png[CompositeEndpoint.png,title="CompositeEndpoint.png"]

[[endpoint-descriptor]]
== Endpoint Descriptor

An Endpoint Descriptor consists of a type, a value, and a set of labels.
The labels of Endpoint Descriptors are combined to form a specification
of an Endpoint using various Boolean operators such as and, or, not. The
type of an EDP can be a field in existing network L1~L7 specifications
such as MAC address, IP address, TCP port, URL etc. The type can also be
a new application registered attribute, which allows an application to
create its own EPD types that are meaningful in its own application
context. The value may be a single value, a range of values, or a list
of values. A range is represented by [x â€“ y], a list is represented by
\{x, y, z}.

The client application and the Intent Engine must agree on the type and
scope of the Endpoint Descriptors. The Intent Engine may maintain an
Endpoint Descriptor database the contains all the different endpoint
types that the Intent Engine supports. The client application may query
this Endpoint Descriptor database to discover the types of Endpoint
Descriptors that it can use when specifying its Intents. In addition the
client application may dynamically compose new Endpoint Descriptors and
register them with the Intent Engine. The client application may then
use any of registered Endpoint Descriptors when it creates Intents. This
allows client applications to extend the base set of network oriented
Endpoint Descriptors to application centric Endpoint Descriptors.

[[network-intent]]
== Network Intent

A network intent specification consists of a source Composite Endpoint,
a destination Composite Endpoint and a Operation that needs to be
applied to traffic send from the source Composite Endpoint to the
destination Composite Endpoint.

image:IntentEndpoints.png[IntentEndpoints.png,title="IntentEndpoints.png"]
