Applications wish to apply intent to combinations of source endpoints
and destination endpoints. Traditionally, endpoints are identified using
physical attributes (such as IP/MAC address). As we expand
identification of endpoints to use administrative and dynamic
attributes, the ease and power of specifying network intent is
dramatically increased.

[[attribute-types]]
== Attribute Types

[[physical-attributes]]
=== Physical Attributes

Physical attributes are any attributes which correlate specifically to
the physical device on the network. Examples include device addressing
(IP/MAC) and device location (switch+port). These attributes often
translate directly to matchable fields within the traffic. These
attributes are the most basic way to specify endpoints, but they require
the application to have undesirable knowledge of the network topology.
Note that some physical attributes (such as device location) may
dynamically change in a live network.

[[administrative-attributes]]
=== Administrative Attributes

Administrative attributes are any attributes which may be applied
beforehand by an administrator to a specific user or group of users.
Examples include the operating system of a device, the service(s)
provided by a server, or a user's name, email address, or group (LDAP).
Administrative attributes must often be translated into a physical
attribute (device address) before they can be matched against network
traffic. Administrative attributes typically change infrequently once
they are set by an administrator.

[[dynamic-attributes]]
=== Dynamic Attributes

Dynamic attributes are any attributes which are dynamically applied by
an application. Dynamic attributes are often derived from a combination
of network behavior and network topology. Examples include marking a
host as 'infected', as 'using high-bandwidth', or as being
'authenticated'. Dynamic attributes must be translated into a physical
attribute (device address) before they can be matched against network
traffic. Dynamic attributes typically change frequently since they are
applied by applications.

image:NIC DynamicAttributes.gif[NIC DynamicAttributes.gif,title="NIC DynamicAttributes.gif"]

[[application-defined-attributes]]
== Application-Defined Attributes

Applications may want to dynamically apply attributes to endpoints and
reference those attributes in statements of intent for the network. One
example would be "block all infected hosts". The application may wish to
make use of an attribute which is not known beforehand by the
controller, or which only has meaning in the context of the application.
In that case, the controller might allow applications to register
attributes, then use those attributes in statements of intent, and apply
those attributes dynamically to endpoints.

image:NIC RegisterAttribute.gif[NIC RegisterAttribute.gif,title="NIC RegisterAttribute.gif"]

[[logical-attribute-expressions]]
== Logical Attribute Expressions

Attributes are simple textual labels, but they may be combined logically
to identify a particular group of users. For example, an application may
want to send all traffic from "Bob or wireless guests" through a
monitoring server. Using logical constructs like AND, OR, NOT, and
parenthesis we could represent this group as "Bob OR (wireless AND
guest)". The application can formulate an endpoint group selector as a
logical expression of endpoint attributes, which is a powerful and
flexible method of describing endpoint groups.
