[[transition-plan]]
== Transition Plan

A discussion of the transition to the MD-SAL in the context of the
Hydrogen release can be found in the
Tech Work Stream:Main#Information_From_Past_Meetings[October 14th
Technical Work Stream meeting]. Also, described in the
image:MD-SAL-transition.pdf[diagrams,title="fig:diagrams"] draw by Colin
Dixon after the call and discussed in this
https://lists.opendaylight.org/pipermail/controller-dev/2013-October/001595.html[mailing
list thread]. The steps are also described here:

[[status-and-timeline-summary]]
=== Status and Timeline Summary

The details of the plan are in the pictures below, this captures the
status and timeline

[cols=",,,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Step # |Name |Status |Plan
|1 |AD-SAL only |Done |Done

|2 |Adapt AD-SAL SB APIs to MD-SAL |Done |(see
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=controller.git;a=tree;f=opendaylight/md-sal/sal-compability;h=c55cbb1d57860c0f25b4299d90005fff71a40cde;hb=HEAD[opendaylight/md-sal/sal-compability]
)

|3 |Adapt AD-SAL NSF interfaces to MD-SAL |Done
|https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=controller.git;a=tree;f=opendaylight/md-sal/compatibility/flow-management-compatibility;h=d571655577d9f4c4b0b213b23fc493f8175b913a;hb=HEAD[FRM],
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=controller.git;a=tree;f=opendaylight/md-sal/compatibility/inventory-topology-compatibility;h=e6fe88b061eb01fcb470895a4190bbd9733552b3;hb=HEAD[SwitchManager,
TopologyManager]

|4 |Port AD-SAL NSFs to the MD-SAL |
|https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=controller.git;a=tree;f=opendaylight/md-sal/inventory-manager;h=a1bd2a7de6ef2baf630de4a4d6959edd06081715;hb=HEAD[Inventory]:
Done +
 Topology: Nov 8 +
 FRM: Nov 11 +
 Statistics Manager is an App +
 HostTracker is an App +
 Troubleshooting Manager is an App

|5 |All AD-SAL NSFs transitioned (Final Intended State for Hydrogen) |
|Nov 11
|=======================================================================

[[step-1-initial-state-ad-sal-only]]
=== Step 1: Initial State AD-SAL only

image:MD-SAL-transition-1.png[MD-SAL-transition-1.png,title="MD-SAL-transition-1.png"]

Step 1: AD-SAL only

[[step-2-adapt-ad-sal-sb-apis-to-md-sal]]
=== Step 2: Adapt AD-SAL SB APIs to MD-SAL

image:MD-SAL-transition-2.png[MD-SAL-transition-2.png,title="MD-SAL-transition-2.png"]

Step 2: Adapt AD-SAL SB APIs to MD-SAL. (see
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=controller.git;a=tree;f=opendaylight/md-sal/sal-compability;h=c55cbb1d57860c0f25b4299d90005fff71a40cde;hb=HEAD[opendaylight/md-sal/sal-compability]
). So when a call comes through the AD-SAL that is destined for a SB
that is handled by the MD-SAL, it works.

[[step-3-adapt-ad-sal-nsf-interfaces-to-md-sal]]
=== Step 3: Adapt AD-SAL NSF interfaces to MD-SAL

image:MD-SAL-transition-3.png[MD-SAL-transition-3.png,title="MD-SAL-transition-3.png"]

Step 3: Adapt AD-SAL NSF interfaces to MD-SAL, so that when a call is
made to the MD-SAL NB for a NSF that is still AD-SAL, it works.

[[step-4port-ad-sal-nsfs-to-the-md-sal]]
=== Step 4:Port AD-SAL NSFs to the MD-SAL

image:MD-SAL-transition-4.png[MD-SAL-transition-4.png,title="MD-SAL-transition-4.png"]

Step 4: One by one AD-SAL NSFs are ported to the MD-SAL with the MD-SAL
NSF Adaptor bundle adapting them back to AD-SAL Apps so those apps still
work. NSF by NSF we can choose to 'switch over' just by switching which
set of bundles go into the distribution as confidence is gained.

[[step-5-all-ad-sal-nsfs-transitioned-final-intended-state-for-hydrogen]]
=== Step 5: All AD-SAL NSFs transitioned (Final Intended State for
Hydrogen)

image:MD-SAL-transition-5.png[MD-SAL-transition-5.png,title="MD-SAL-transition-5.png"]

Step 5: All AD-SAL NSFs transitioned. AD-SAL apps continue to work via
the AD-SAL NSF Adaptor Bundle. Remaining AD-SAL SB plugins can use the
AD-SAL SB Adaptor.

Because the plan is to have (briefly) source-bundle-level duplication of
the NSFs, this should mean that there's no real need for a branch to do
this development since we're effectively getting the same isolation by
having two copies of the NSF bundles. I would imagine the plan is to do
something analogous for the SB drivers as well, but I haven't
illustrated that here.
