[cols="^",]
|=======================================================================
|*SAL Guide Contents*

|OpenDaylight Controller:Model-Driven Controller Service Abstraction Layer[Model-Driven
Controller SAL] +
OpenDaylight Controller:SAL Infrastructure[SAL:Infrastructure and
Interfaces] +
OpenDaylight Controller: SAL Architecture Overview[SAL:Architecture
Overview] +
OpenDaylight Controller:YANG Schema and Model[SAL:YANG Schema] +
OpenDaylight Controller:Binding-Independent Data Format[SAL:BI Data
Format] +
OpenDaylight Controller:Binding-Independent Components[SAL:BI
Components] +
OpenDaylight Controller:Binding-Aware SAL[SAL:Binding-Aware SAL] +
OpenDaylight Controller:Binding Model[SAL:Binding Model] +
OpenDaylight Controller:Binding Aware Components[SAL:BA Components] +
OpenDaylight Controller:Example Workflows[SAL:Example Workflows and
Diagrams] +
OpenDaylight Controller:Programmer Guide[Programmer Guide Top Level] +
OpenDaylight Controller:Main[Top Level Contents]
|=======================================================================

[[introduction]]
== Introduction

The Model-driven approach to service abstraction presents an opportunity
to unify both northbound and southbound APIs and the data structures
used in various services and components of an SDN Controller.

In order to describe the structure of data provided by controller
components, a domain-specific language, YANG, is proposed as the
modeling language for service and data abstractions. Such language
allows:

* Modeling the structure of XML data and functionality provided by
controller components.

* Defining semantic elements and their relationships.

* Modelling all the components as a single system.

The XML nature of YANG data model presents an opportunity for
self-describing data, which controller components and applications using
the controller’s northbound APIs can consume in a raw format, along with
the data’s schema.

Utilizing a schema language simplifies development of controller
components and applications. A developer of a module that provides some
functionality (a service, data, functions/procedure) can define a schema
and thus create simpler, statically typed APIs for the provided
functionality, and thereby lower the risk of incorrect interpretation of
data structures exposed through the Service Abstraction Layer.

[[scope]]
== Scope

This content defines the architecture of a model-driven Service
Abstraction Layer (SAL), binding-independent data formats used in the
SAL, and infrastructure components that comprise the SAL.

[[definitions-and-acronyms]]
== Definitions and Acronyms

* *Binding*: Java interfaces, classes and contracts generated from a
YANG schema describing functionality.

* *Binding-Aware*: A component or functionality which uses a generated
Binding for data and APIs.

* *BI, Binding-independent*: A component or functionality which uses a
neutral data DOM format for data and API calls, which is independent of
generated Java language bindings.

* *Binding-independent type identifier*: An identifier for a data
structure or an RPC method in a QName-like format[1].

* *Consumer*: A component (e.g. an application) which uses the model
and/or APIs provided (implemented) by another Providers.

* *Data operation*: An operation on top of data subset describing the
state of the system as a whole (configuration, running data).

* *DTO, Data Transfer Object*: a simple object used to transfer data
between Binding-Aware components. DTOs are part of binding.

* *Infrastructure Component*: A component which is neither a Provider or
a Consumer, but exposes or extends the SAL functionality.

* *Provider*: A component which provides functionality to applications
through either model-specific APIs or in a binding-independent format

* *SAL*: Service Abstraction Layer.

* *NSF*: Network Service Function (e.g. TopologyManager,
ForwardingRulesManager).

[[content-structure]]
== Content Structure

This content is organized into three main parts:

* OpenDaylight Controller:SAL Infrastructure[Infrastructure and
Infrastructural Components]
** OpenDaylight Controller: SAL Architecture Overview[Architecture
Overview]
** OpenDaylight Controller:YANG Schema and Model[YANG Schema and Model]
**
OpenDaylight Controller:Binding-Independent Data Format[Binding-Independent
Data Format]
**
OpenDaylight Controller:Binding-Independent Components[Binding-Independent
Components]
* OpenDaylight Controller:Binding-Aware SAL[Binding-Aware SAL] - This
uses code generated both at development time and at runtime. It
comprises the following sections:
** OpenDaylight Controller:Binding Model[Binding Model] – describes the
base concepts of mapping the Binding-Independent format to generated
Java binding
** OpenDaylight Controller:Binding Aware Components[Binding Aware
Components] – describes the components, which uses the Binding and/or
provide the support functionality for Binding.
* OpenDaylight Controller:Example Workflows[Example Workflows and
Sequence Diagrams] - demonstrates how the Controller SAL works.

[[ad-sal-transition-plan]]
== AD-SAL Transition Plan

OpenDaylight Controller:MD-SAL:AD-SAL Compatibility[MD-SAL to AD-SAL
Compatibility]

[[references]]
== References

* http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6241 - Network Configuration Protocol
(NETCONF)
* http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6020 - YANG - A Data Modeling Language
for the Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)
* http://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-clemm-netmod-mount - Mounting
YANG-Defined Information from Remote Datastores
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Northbound_interface

Category:OpenDaylight Controller[Category:OpenDaylight Controller]
