MD-SAL 's RESTful interfaces are designed based on RESTCONF protocol
(https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-bierman-netconf-restconf/).
These interfaces are generated dyamically at runtime based on YANG
models that defines its data. Since interface generation is dynamic,
there are no statically compiled Java classes that can be annotated to
create pretty documentation. The lack of documentation is one of the
common complains from users of MD-SAL.

RESTCONF API Explorer should address that complaint. It is deployed as
an OSGI bundle that generates and renders the documentation at runtime.
The generated documentation is based on Swagger specification
(https://github.com/wordnik/swagger-spec/blob/master/versions/1.2.md)
and is rendered on Swagger UI (https://github.com/wordnik/swagger-ui)
which is embedded in this bundle.

`Gerrit: `https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/#/c/6574/[`https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/#/c/6574/`]

`Video Presentation: `http://youtu.be/QVmgC_dVAMQ[`http://youtu.be/QVmgC_dVAMQ`]

[[usage]]
= Usage

[[getting-resource-listing]]
== Getting resource listing

API explorer is accesible at

http://localhost:8080/apidoc/explorer[`http://localhost:8080/apidoc/explorer`]

Karaf:

http://localhost:8181/apidoc/explorer/index.html[`http://localhost:8181/apidoc/explorer/index.html`]

image:Api-explorer.png[ thumb| Fig 1,title=" thumb| Fig 1"]

Replace `localhost` with IP of your controller, ofcourse! You should see
UI like the one in Fig 1.

_Resource List URL_ textbox is pre-populated with the URL. Press
_explore_ button to get the listing.

_Note: This may take up to a min to load in your browser. Its just that
server returns a lot of JSON documents for the browser to load. We'll
add optimizations to make the loading time faster._

Once browser loads up the listing, any resource collection can be
reviewed by expanding it (by clicking on it)

[[working-with-a-resource]]
== Working with a resource

Expanding a resource collection would list all supported resources (Fig
2). Any resource can further be examined by clicking on it (Fig 3).

File:Apilist.png|Fig 2 File:Apidetails.png|FIg 3
File:Api-req-resp.png|Fig 4

_Descriptions and Model definitions_ are generated from `yang` files.

HTML form is generated by swagger and is based on
https://github.com/wordnik/swagger-spec/blob/master/versions/1.2.md#52-api-declaration[API
Declaration Specification]. Use this to execute the API and see
request/response on live server. Fig 4 illustrates api request and
response.

[[dynamic-doc-generation]]
= Dynamic doc generation

At runtime, this component queries MD-SAL to get access to Schema
Service. Schema Service contains Schema Context that maintains a
repository of all yang modules available in the system. Each module is
then converted into swagger spec compliant json document. Restconf API
Explorer exposes RESTful interfaces of its own to serve these JSON
Document. The web ui uses these RESTful interfaces to render ui.

image:Restconf-doc.jpg[Restconf-doc.jpg,title="Restconf-doc.jpg"]

[[implementation-details]]
== Implementation Details

There are 2 components in API Explorer.

1.  *Web UI*: This is Swagger UI embedded with this application
2.  '''API Doc Generator: This is a service that generates swagger
compliant api documentation. It exposes 2 RESTFul endpoints
1.  *Resource Listing* : Returns a list of all yang modules in the
system. Its accessible at `/apidoc/apis`
2.  '''API Declaration ''' : Returns all the resources defined per
module. Its accessible at `/apidocs/api/<module_name,revision>`

This sequence diagram captures the flow.

image:Api-doc-generator.png[Api-doc-generator.png,title="Api-doc-generator.png"]

[[further-improvements]]
= Further Improvements

[cols=",",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Description |Bug
|*Pagination and searching* +
 The initial page load is extremely slow because it tries to load JSON
for all the modules defined in the system. Need to have pagination and
searching to limit the amount of JSON to be loaded by the browser. ||
https://bugs.opendaylight.org/show_bug.cgi?id=906

|*Augmentation Support* +
 Currently URL for augmented nodes are not being generated. ||
https://bugs.opendaylight.org/show_bug.cgi?id=907

|*Implement Schema change listener* +
 Whenever controller learns about a new yang schema, the documentation
for it needs to be generated and cached. ||
https://bugs.opendaylight.org/show_bug.cgi?id=908

|*Generate _Mount_ endpoints* +
 RESTConf _mount_ endpoints needs to be generated. ||
https://bugs.opendaylight.org/show_bug.cgi?id=910

|*JSON Conversion for YANG Identifier types* +
 Model generator does not generate models for `Identifier` types ||
https://bugs.opendaylight.org/show_bug.cgi?id=909

|*Offline doc generation* +
 Generate documentation during build time ||
https://bugs.opendaylight.org/show_bug.cgi?id=915

|*Highlight augmentations* +
 Highlight the properties that are augmented and who augmented them. ||
https://bugs.opendaylight.org/show_bug.cgi?id=916

|*Highlight config attributes* +
 Highlight config attributes in models ||
https://bugs.opendaylight.org/show_bug.cgi?id=931

|*Toaster URL is not correct* +
 Its /config/toaster:toaster but should be toaster:toaster ||
https://bugs.opendaylight.org/show_bug.cgi?id=932
|=======================================================================

