[[overview-and-architecture]]
=== Overview and Architecture

image:D4A_in_odl2.jpg[Defense4All logical positioning in OpenDaylight
environment,title="fig:Defense4All logical positioning in OpenDaylight environment"]
Defense4All is an SDN application for detecting and mitigating DDoS
attacks. Figure 3 depicts its positioning in OpenDaylight environment.
The application communicates with OpenDaylight Controller via the ODC
north-bound REST API. Through this API Defense4All performs two main
tasks:

1.  Monitoring behavior of protected traffic - the application sets flow
entries in selected network locations to read traffic statistics for
each of the PNs (aggregating statistics collected for a given PN from
multiple locations).
2.  Diverting attacked traffic to selected AMSs – the application set
flow entries in selected network locations to divert traffic to selected
AMSs. When an attack is over the application removes these flow entries,
thus returning to normal operation and traffic monitoring.

Defense4All can optionally communicate with the defined AMSs – e.g., to
dynamically configure them, monitor them or collect and act upon attack
statistics from the AMSs. The API to AMS is not standardized, and in any
case beyond the scope of the OpenDaylight work. Defense4All contains a
reference implementation pluggable driver to communicate with Radware’s
DefensePro AMS. The application presents its north-bound REST and CLI
APIs to allow its manager to:

1.  Control and configure the application (runtime parameters, ODC
connectivity, AMSs in domain, PNs, etc.).
2.  Obtain reporting data – operational or security, current or
historical, unified from Defense4All and other sources (like ODC, AMSs).

Defense4All provides unified management, reporting and monitoring.

*Management* - Important part of Defense4All operation is to allow users
simple “one touch” and abstracted provisioning of security services, for
both detection and mitigation operations. The user needs to only specify
simple security attributes.

*Reporting and monitoring operations* - Important part of security
services is a combination of (near) real-time logs for monitoring as
well as historical logs for reporting. Defense4All provides a unified
interface for both purposes. The monitoring information is based on
various events collected from Defense4All, AMSs and ODC, allowing rich
and correlated view on events. Logged event records can be operational
or security related. The former includes failures and errors and
informational logs. The latter includes detections, attacks and attack
mitigation lifecycles, traffic diversion information and periodic
traffic averages. All logs are persistent (stable storage and
replication).

[[installation-guide]]
=== Defense4All:Installation_Guide[Installation Guide]

[[installation-troubleshooting]]
=== Defense4All:Installation_Troubleshooting[Installation
Troubleshooting]

[[configuration]]
=== Defense4All:Configuration[Configuration]

[[tutorial-how-to]]
=== Defense4All:Tutorial[Tutorial / How-To]

[[web-graphical-interface]]
=== Defense4All:WebUI[Web / Graphical Interface]

[[command-line-interface]]
=== Defense4All:CLI[Command Line Interface]

[[programmatic-interfaces]]
=== Defense4All:REST[Programmatic Interface(s)]

[[help]]
=== Defense4All:Help[Help]

If the project maintains a “users” email list or other community help
opportunities (ex: YouTube channel), they should be described and linked
here.
