Please see the link:Committer_Members_Board_Representation[ Committer
Board Members page] for information on what this election is, who can
run, and how it is executed.

[[dates-to-remember]]
== Dates To Remember

[[nominations-open-october-6th-2014]]
=== Nominations Open: October 6th, 2014

[[nominations-close-midnight-utc-500pm-pdt-october-17th-2014]]
=== Nominations Close: Midnight UTC (5:00pm PDT) October 17th, 2014

[[nomination-review-begins-october-20-2014]]
=== Nomination Review Begins: October 20, 2014

[[nomination-review-ends-midnight-utc-500pm-pdt-october-31st-2014]]
=== Nomination Review Ends: Midnight UTC (5:00pm PDT) October 31st, 2014

[[voting-begins-november-4th-2014]]
=== Voting Begins: November 4th, 2014

[[voting-ends-midnight-utc-500pm-pdt-november-18th-2014]]
=== Voting Ends: Midnight UTC (5:00pm PDT) November 18th, 2014

[[information-on-the-candidates]]
== Information On The Candidates

Each Candidate, please provide the following:

* Name
* Photo
* Biography
* Statement of Intent in being a Committer Member on the Board of
Directors

[[the-candidates-in-ascending-alphabetical-order-by-last-name]]
=== The Candidates (In ascending alphabetical order by last name)

[[luis-gomez]]
==== Luis Gomez

image:Photo_Luis_Gomez.jpg[Photo_Luis_Gomez.jpg,title="fig:Photo_Luis_Gomez.jpg"]
Principal Test Engineer in Brocade Open Source Software group +
Projects: Integration +
 +
 +
 Biography

'''''

Luis has been an active OpenDaylight committer since September 2013.
What originally was an assignment to drive the integration and test
activities in OpenDaylight has become a passion not just for the
cutting-edge technologies we use, but mainly for the quality of the
people and the “Open Source" values of our community. As a leader in the
integration group, Luis has played a key role working with the projects
and members of the integration group to provide OpenDaylight with a
clear test strategy, a solid infrastructure for release vehicle
production, and test code for all the base components. Luis has a Master
in Telecommunications Engineering - Radio and Transmission from
Politechnical University of Madrid and 14+ years of experience
integrating and testing Service Provider networks including mobile,
broadband and transport solutions. While Luis has less experience
sitting on executive boards, his deep and broad understanding of
OpenDaylight from a technical and community perspective makes him an
ideal candidate to represent the community and committers on the board.

Statement of Intent

'''''

* As an active member and contributor, I will represent all developers
and community interests on the board
* As a leader on the integration project, I will provide some QA, test
and usability insight into the board
* More important, I will work on making sure the community gets the
support and infrastructure it needs to be effective

[[mathieu-lemay]]
==== Mathieu Lemay

image:MLemayHead.jpg[MLemayHead.jpg,title="fig:MLemayHead.jpg"] CEO,
Inocybe Technologies +
CTO, Civimetrix Telecom Inc. +
Projects: Docs, Reservation

Biography

'''''

Mathieu Lemay is CEO of Inocybe Technologies, a company specializing in
Smart & Sustainable IT Infrastructures and CTO of Civimetrix Telecom a
company deploying Open Access Networks. Mathieu has more than 20 years
of experience in information technology. At the age of 10 he was
programming C++, ADA and x86 ASM and then got involved in networking
from the early Bulletin Board Systems to the first commodity Internet.
He earned a Master’s degree in Electrical Engineering with a focus on
Wireless and Optical Telecommunications. Inocybe Technologies is a
member of OpenDaylight since June 2013 and Mathieu is currently a
committer to the Docs and Reservation projects. After 9 years at being
CEO, Mathieu has acquired intensive knowledge on legal and technical
contracts. He is also well versed in financial management of IT
resources and assets.

Statement of Intent

'''''

Please watch my video: http://youtu.be/NyJNN9gDy1k[Mathieu Lemay -
Election Video]

*Summary*

I would like to state my interest to be elected on OpenDaylight's board
of directors. I would represent all the committers interests to the
board and will be your servant to any concerns or issues. I am almost
always available via e-mail or IRC if needed. Moreover, as the CEO of
one of the smallest company in OpenDaylight, I think I can bring other
perspectives to the discussions which are currently governed by giants
and possibly make things happen that are more difficult to execute in
larger corporate environments. As a day-to-day CEO, I also have lots of
experience in participating in board meetings but I also try to always
keep myself involved at a technical level too, when time permits. I know
I am sometimes a little too "busy" which is why board-level involvement
would better suited for my schedule. Inocybe Technologies is providing a
commercially-supported distribution which means that we do extensive
testing and continuous deployment of OpenDaylight to our platform
environment. As such we plan to provide feedback and guidance to the
board on issues not yet identified by the OpenDaylight's integration
team. Our philosophy is and will always be upstream first and pure-play
OpenDaylight. Finally, my main reason for this nomination is I would
like to be able to vote on budgets, issues and any relevant bylaw
changes that will keep OpenDaylight project healthy and free from large
corporate interests that tend to deadlock situations to protect legacy
interests. Finally, from a resources perspective, getting elected could
help Inocybe do more in the project as we would get more visibility and
funding. Please vote for me and help us stay involved.

[[kyle-mestery]]
==== Kyle Mestery

image:Kyle.jpg[Kyle.jpg,title="fig:Kyle.jpg"] +
 *Biography*

'''''

I've been involved with OpenDaylight since very early on. I was the
person who originally wrote the ML2 driver which integrates OpenDaylight
with Neutron. I also was the person responsible for the Jenkins jobs
which test OpenDaylight with upstream Neutron. I've been heavily
involved with the architecture of this and I'm passionate about
OpenDaylight being a first class citizen with regards to OpenStack
Neutron plugins and drivers. I'm also currently the OpenStack Neutron
PTL. In addition, my day job is Chief Technologist for Open Source
networking at HP.

*Statement of intent*

'''''

I believe that my broad experience in Open Source will bring a critical
committer viewpoint to the board of directors for OpenDaylight. I've
watched OpenDaylight grow and I believe the board can offer continued
guidance to the project as a whole. Being able to represent the
committers on the board means I'll be the voice of everyone working on
OpenDaylight. I'm excited to help guide OpenDaylight into it's next
stage of growth should you elect me to the Board.
