[[introduction]]
= Introduction

The technologies in the design of the OpenDaylight controller software
architecture lie at the intersection of three recent technology trends
in software engineering and networking: Software Defined Networking
(SDN) innovations, model driven software engineering (MDSE) and model
driven network management. Because SDN is driven (in part) by the
demands for increased network programmability (enabling the networking
agility component of the movement toward increased virtualization,
abstraction and programmatic control), the controller functions as both
“middleware” in solution delivery and “foundry” in application
development. The OpenDaylight controller software architecture defines
patterns of application creation and interaction (APIs and RPC
governance), underlying application services (e.g. message routing,
formatting and data storage) and has ultimately lead to new development
tools for an environment enabled for open source collaboration.

The following sections are organized as follows. Section
OpenDaylight Controller:MD-SAL:MD-SAL_Document_Review:Architecture#Background[Background]
provides a brief background of these key software and networking
technologies/approaches used in the model-driven controller
architecture/design. Section
OpenDaylight Controller:MD-SAL:MD-SAL_Document_Review:Architecture#Requirements[Requirements]
describes the context and requirements for the OpenDaylight controller
architecture/design. Finally, Section
OpenDaylight Controller:MD-SAL:MD-SAL_Document_Review:Architecture#Architecture[Architecture]
describes the architecture of the OpenDaylight controller.

[[background]]
= Background

[[software-defined-networking]]
== Software Defined Networking

Software-defined networking emerged from work done at UC Berkeley and
Stanford University around 2008. The original SDN network architecture
proposed decoupling of network control from packet forwarding and a
direct programmability of the network control function [1]. Network
intelligence is (logically) centralized in software-based SDN
controllers, which maintain a global view of the network. As a result,
the network appears to the applications and policy engines as a single,
logical switch. This architecture has been further evolved in the Open
Networking Foundation (ONF), an organization that also drives the
evolution of the
https://www.opennetworking.org/sdn-resources/onf-specifications/openflow[OpenFlow
protocol standard]. OpenFlow allows the network control function to
remotely program the packet forwarding function.

Over the years, multiple controllers were developed for this
architecture: https://openflow.stanford.edu/display/Beacon/Home[Beacon],
http://www.projectfloodlight.org/floodlight/[Floodlight],
http://www.noxrepo.org/nox/about-nox[NOX],
http://www.noxrepo.org/pox/about-pox/[POX],
http://osrg.github.com/ryu/[Ryu] and more recently
http://onosproject.org/[ONOS]. Each controller implemented OpenFlow as
the sole southbound protocol towards the packet forwarding function, and
provided access to its control plane functions through northbound REST
APIs. These controller platforms supported mostly network control plane
applications, with the “killer app” being
http://www.vmware.com/files/pdf/products/nsx/VMware-NSX-Datasheet.pdf[network
virtualization].

While decoupling of control and forwarding functions is a valid and
useful SDN use case, SDN can be defined more broadly than by the
OpenFlow protocol abstractions. OpenFlow only supports retrieval and
programming of data related to the network forwarding function. However,
the network is a source of a vast amount of other useful data that can
be utilized by SDN applications. Moreover, network data can be retrieved
and networks can be programmed through a variety of protocols and APIs
at different levels of information abstraction, such as BGP, NETCONF,
Netflow/IP-Fix, SNMP, or vendor-specific CLIs. Basically, SDN defines a
generic feedback/control/policy loop between applications and the
network: applications get data/information from the network, process the
data and make policy/control decisions that are driven back into the
network, as shown in the following figure:

image:Arch-Fig1.jpg[Arch-Fig1.jpg,title="Arch-Fig1.jpg"]

SDN use cases now encompass, in addition to Data Center specific
orchestration applications, a variety of diverse SDN applications that
harvest network information and use network APIs to program the network.
Examples are, in addition to virtualization
(OpenDaylight_Virtual_Tenant_Network_(VTN):Main[VTN] or
Open_DOVE:Main[Open DOVE]), applications such as multi-layer path
optimization, network analytics, Group_Policy:Main[Group Policy
configuration], Service Function Chaining:Main[ Service Function
Chaining] or Defense4All:Main[Security].

[[model-driven-software-engineering]]
== Model-Driven Software Engineering

OpenDaylight leverages Model Driven Software Engineering (MDSE) defined
by the http://www.omg.org/[Object Management Group (OMG)]. MDSE
describes a framework based on consistent relationships between
(different) models, standardized mappings and patterns that enable model
generation and, by extension, code/API generation from models. This
generalization can overlay any specific modeling language. Although OMG
focus their MDA solution on UML, YANG has emerged as the data modeling
language for the networking domain.

The models created are portable (cross platform) and can be leveraged to
describe business policies, platform operation or component specific
capability (vertically) as well as (in the case of SDN) manifest at the
service interfaces provided by a network control entity (horizontally
and vertically within an application service framework).

MDSE enables run-time mediation and inter-model mapping, for example, if
the models are of two different domain types, such as J2EE and UML

[[model-driven-network-managementprogrammability]]
== Model-Driven Network Management/Programmability

The model-driven approach is being increasingly used in the networking
domain to describe the functionality of network devices [4], services
[15], policies [18], [19], and network APIs [16], [17]. The protocols of
choice are NETCONF and RESTCONF; the modeling language of choice is
YANG.

http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6241[NETCONF] is an IETF network
management protocol that defines configuration and operational
conceptual data stores and a set of Create, Retrieve, Update, Delete
(CRUD) operations that can be used to access these data stores. In
addition to the data stores CRUD operations, NETCONF also supports
simple Remote Procedure Call (RPC) and Notification operations. NETCONF
operations are realized on top of a simple Call (RPC) layer. NETCONF
uses an XML- based data encoding for the configuration and operational
data, as well as for its protocol messages.

http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-netconf-restconf-03[RESTCONF] is a
REST-like protocol that provides a programmatic interface over HTTP for
accessing data defined in YANG, using the data stores defined in
NETCONF. Configuration data and state data are exposed as resources that
can be retrieved with the HTTP GET method. Resources representing
configuration data can be modified with the HTTP DELETE, PATCH, POST,
and PUT methods. Data is encoded in either XML or JSON.

http://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc6020/[YANG] was originally developed
to model configuration and state data in network devices, but it can
also be used to describe other network constructs, such as services,
policies, protocols, or subscribers. YANG is tree- structured rather
than object-oriented; data is structured into a tree and it can contain
complex types, such as lists and unions. In addition to data
definitions, YANG supports constructs to model Remote Procedure Calls
(RPCs) and Notifications, which make it suitable for use as an Interface
Description Language (IDL) in a model-driven system.

[[requirements]]
= Requirements

The SDN controller should be both a *platform* for deploying SDN
applications and provide (or be associated with) an *SDN application
development environment*.

An SDN controller _platform_ should be built to meet the following key
requirements:

* *Flexibility*: The controller must be able to accommodate a variety of
diverse applications; at the same time, controller applications should
use a common framework and programming model and provide consistent APIs
to their clients. This is important for troubleshooting, system
integration, and for combining applications into higher-level
orchestrated workflows.
* *Scale the development process*: There should be no common controller
infrastructure subsystem where a plugin would have to add code. The
architecture must allow for plugins to be developed independently of
each other and of the controller infrastructure, and it must support
relatively short system integration times. Currently, there are 18
active OpenDaylight projects. Fifteen more projects are in the proposal
stage. OpenDaylight projects are largely autonomous, and are being
developed by independent teams, with little coordination between them.
* *Run-time Extensibility*: The controller must be able to load new
protocol and service/application plugins at run-time. The controller’s
infrastructure should adapt itself to data schemas (models) that are
either ingested from dynamically loaded plugins or discovered from
devices. Run-time extensibility allows the controller to adapt to
network changes (new devices and/or new features) and avoids the lengthy
release cycle typical for legacy EMS/NMS systems, where each new feature
in a network device results in a manual change of the device model in
the NMS/EMS.
* *Performance & scale*: A controller must be able to perform well for a
variety of different loads/applications in a diverse set of
environments; however, performance should not be achieved at the expense
of modularity. The controller architecture should allow for horizontal
scaling in clustered/cloud environments.

To support _development of SDN applications_, an SDN controller should
also provide (or be associated with) an application development
environment that should meet the following key requirements:

* *Code generation* from models should be used to enforce standard API
contracts and to generate boilerplate code performing repetitive and
error-prone tasks, such as parameter range checking.
** Code generation should produce functionally equivalent APIs for
different language bindings.
* Use a *domain-specific modeling language* to describe internal and
external system behavior; this fosters co- operation between developers
and network domain experts and facilitates system integration.
** A domain-specific modeling language and code generation tools should
enable *rapid evolution APIs and protocols* (Agility).
** Domain-specific language/technologies/tools used in the controller
must be usable for *modeling of generic network constructs*, such as
services, service chains, subscriber managements and policies.
* *Modeling tools* for the controller should be aligned with modeling
tools for devices. Then, a common tool chain can be used for both, and
device models can be re-used in the controller, creating a zero-touch
path between the device and a controller application/plugin that uses
its models.
* The *tool chain* should support code generation for model-to-model
adaptations for services and devices.

[[architecture]]
= Architecture

[[history-and-overview]]
== History and Overview

OpenDaylight was originally inspired by Beacon, which introduced the use
of Open Service Gateway Interface (OSGi) that is key for modularity and
run-time loading of components (plugins) into the controller. The
initial “bootstrap” contribution to ODL introduced a major innovation:
the Service Adaptation Layer (SAL) that separated southbound (SB)
protocol plugins and northbound (NB) service/application plugins. The
architecture comprised three layers: SB protocol plugins, the SAL, and
the NB Application/Service Functions., as shown in the following figure.

image:Arch-Fig2.jpg[Arch-Fig2.jpg,title="Arch-Fig2.jpg"]

The SB (protocol) plugins interface with network devices. The SAL
adapted the SB plugin functions to higher-level Application/Service
functions, which provide the controller’s ￼NB APIs to applications.
Examples of Application/Service functions are the Topology Exporter, the
Inventory Manager and the OpenFlow Statistics Manager. The layered
architecture allows the controller to support multiple southbound
protocols (via SB protocol plugins) and to provide a uniform set of
services and APIs to applications through a common set of NB APIs.

In the original SAL (referred to as the “API-Driven SAL”, AD-SAL),
developers had to define the SAL APIs used by the plugins and code the
adaptation functionality between the northbound and southbound plugins.
It quickly became apparent that hand-coding the SAL APIs and adaptations
to support new plugin functionality would not scale in an initiative of
ODP’s magnitude.

[[evolution-to-the-model-driven-service-adaptation-layer]]
== Evolution to the Model-Driven Service Adaptation Layer

To address the requirements for the controller listed in Section
OpenDaylight Controller:MD-SAL:MD-SAL_Document_Review:Architecture#Requirements[Requirements]
, a new model-driven architecture was proposed and implemented for the
Service Adaptation Layer (referred to as the “Model-Driven SAL”,
MD-SAL). The architecture is built around concepts, protocols and
modeling language described in detail in Section
OpenDaylight Controller:MD-SAL:MD-SAL_Document_Review:Architecture#Background[Background].

Controller plugins can be either data/service Providers or data/service
Consumers. A Provider provides data/services through its APIs. A
Consumer consumes services/data provided by one or more Providers. For
example, the OpenFlow protocol plugin provides services to add, modify
or delete flows from switches connected to the plugin. One of the
consumers of the OpenFlow plugin’s services is the Forwarding Rules
Manager that provides higher-level flow programming services to
controller clients.

The OpenDaylight development environment includes tooling that generates
this code (codecs and Java APIs). The tooling preserves YANG data type
hierarchies, retains data tree hierarchy (providing normal Java
compile-time type safety) and data addressing hierarchies. A plugin’s
APIs are resolved when the plugin is loaded into the controller. The SAL
does not contain any plugin-specific code or APIs and is therefore a
generic plumbing that can adapt itself to any plugins or
services/applications loaded into the controller.

From the infrastructure’s point of view, there is no difference between
a protocol plugin and an application/service plugin. All plugin
life-cycles are the same, each plugin is an OSGi bundle that contains
models defining the plugin’s APIs. Since all plugins are the same to the
controller infrastructure, the architecture can be drawn as shown in the
following figure, which also shows how in a cluster of multiple
controller instances an MD- SAL instance within a JVM container will be
connected to the cluster’s message bus and data store.

image:Arch-Fig3.jpg[Arch-Fig3.jpg,title="Arch-Fig3.jpg"]

[[opendaylight-yang-models]]
== OpenDaylight YANG Models

The Hydrogen production code contains approximately 110 YANG models; 3
models were defined in IETF RFCs, 8 in IETF drafts, the rest have been
defined for specifically for the controller and its applications.
Approximately 10 models describe IETF protocol PDUs, 27 models describe
various aspects of the OpenFlow protocol and 35 models define the
controller’s internal wiring and configuration. Approximately 15
additional models were used for prototyping and proof-of- concept work.

TODO: Helium statistics

[[model-driven-sal-md-sal-detailed-description]]
== Model-Driven SAL (MD-SAL) Detailed Description

TODO: Add a summary of the three things that MD-SAL is: RPC,
Notification, Data Store, all described in yang.

[[common-concepts]]
=== Common Concepts

The common concepts used in the MD-SAL design are as follows. An RPC is
a one-to-one call triggered by a Consumer, which may be processed by a
Provider either local or remote. A Notification is an event, which a
Consumer may be interested in to receive, and which is triggered /
originated in a Provider. The Data Store is a conceptual data tree,
which is described by YANG schemas. A Path is a unique locator of a leaf
or sub-tree in the conceptual data tree. Finally, a Mount is a
logically-nested MD-SAL instance, which may be using a separate set of
YANG models; it supports its own RPCs and Notifications and it allows
for reusing device models and a context in network-wide contexts without
having to redefine the device models in the controller (“Mount”, as its
name suggests, is basically a logical mount of a remote conceptual data
store).

[[md-sal-functionality-and-data-representations]]
=== MD-SAL Functionality and Data Representations

The MD-SAL provides a variety of functions required for adaptation
between Providers and Consumers. First, it routes RPC calls between
Consumers and Providers (*RPC Call Router*). Second, it provides a
subscription-based mechanism for delivery of Notifications from
Publishers to Subscribers (*Notification Broker*). Third, it routes data
reads from Consumers to a particular data store and coordinates data
changes between Providers (*Data Broker*). Finally, it creates and
manages Mounts (*Mount Manager*).

The implementation of the above SAL functions requires the use of two
data representations and two sets of SAL Plugin APIs. The
*Binding-Independent data format/APIs* is a Data Object Model (DOM)
representation of YANG trees. This format is suitable for generic
components, such as the data store, the NETCONF Connector, RESTCONF,
which can derive behavior from a YANG model itself. The *Binding- Aware
data format/APIs* is a specific YANG to Java language binding, which
specifies how Java Data Transfer Objects (DTOs) and APIs are generated
from YANG model. The API definition for these DTOs, interfaces for
invoking / implementing RPCs, interfaces containing Notification
callbacks are generated at compile time. Codecs to translate between the
Java DTOs and DOM representation are generated on demand at run time.
Note that the functionality and performance requirements for both data
representations are the same.

[[md-sal-design]]
=== MD-SAL Design

The data handling functionality is separated into two distinct brokers:
a binding-independent DOM Broker that interprets YANG models at runtime
and is the core component of the MD-SAL runtime, and a Binding-Aware
Broker that exposes Java APIs for plugins using binding-aware
representation of data (Java DTOs. These brokers, along with their
supporting components are shown in the following figure:

image:Arch-Fig4.jpg[Arch-Fig4.jpg,title="Arch-Fig4.jpg"]

The DOM Broker uses YANG data APIs to describe data and Instance
Identifiers specific to YANG to describe paths to data in the system.
Data structures in the Binding-Aware Broker that are visible to
applications are generated from YANG models in YANG tools. The DOM
Broker relies on presence of YANG schemas, which are interpreted at
runtime for functionality-specific purposes, such as RPC routing, data
store organization, and validation of paths.

The Binding-Aware Broker relies on Java APIs, which are generated from
YANG models, and on common properties of Java DTOs, which are enforced
by code generation. Therefore data transfer optimizations (zero-copy)
are possible when a data Consumer and a data Provider are both
Binding-Aware.

The Binding-Aware Broker connects to the DOM Broker through the BA-BI
Connector, so that Binding-Aware Consumer/Provider applications/plugins
can communicate with their respective binding-independent counterparts.
The BA-BI Connector, together with the Mapping Service, the Schema
Service, the Codec Registry and the Codec Generator implement dynamic
late binding: the codecs that translate YANG data representations
between a binding-independent (DOM) format and DTOs, which are specific
to Java bindings, are auto-generated on demand.

The physical Data Store is pluggable – MD-SAL provides an SPI through
which different data store implementations can be plugged in.

The Mount concept and the support for APIs generated from models allow
for applications talking to NETCONF devices to be compiled directly
against device models – there is no need for controller-level models
that represent devices. Device models are loaded into the controller
from a NETCONF device when the controller connects to the device, and
apps can work directly with them.
