[[contacts]]
== Contacts

* Owner: Tony Tkacik

* Team:

[[objective]]
== Objective

The Model-Driven SAL (MD-SAL) is an infrastructure component that
provides messaging and data storage functionality based on data and
interface models defined by application developers (i.e. user-defined
models).

MD-SAL has two main objectives:

* Define a *common-layer*, *concepts*, *data model building blocks* and
*patterns* that provide an infrastructure/framework for applications and
inter-application communication.
* Provide support for user-defined transport and payload formats,
including payload serialization and adaptation (e.g. binary, XML or
JSON).

To achieve the above objectives, MD-SAL uses YANG as the modeling
language for both interface and data definitions, and provides a
messaging and data-centric runtime for such services based on YANG
modeling.

MD-SAL extends the YANGTools project (which provides a YANG parser, data
structures, and data supporting functionality) with messaging patterns
and the concept of data stores / data brokers.

[[what-is-it]]
== What is it

MD-SAL is a home-grown message-bus inspired extensible middleware, which
uses YANG modeling language to describe data and messaging patterns
between applications.

Model-driven nature of MD-SAL allows for behind-the-scene API and
payload type mediation and transformation to facilitate seamless
communication between applications. It also allows for other
applications to provide connectors / expose different set of APIs and
derive most of its functionality purely from YANG Model, which all
existing code without modification could benefit from (one such example
is RESTCONF Connector), which is application built on top of MD-SAL and
exposes YANG-modeled application APIs transparently via HTTP and adds
support for XML and JSON payload type.)

[[basic-concepts]]
=== Basic concepts

Basic concepts are building blocks which are used by applications, and
from which MD-SAL derives its services and behaviour based on mapping of
basic concepts to developer-supplied YANG models.

* *Data Tree* - All state-related data are modeled and represented as
data tree, with possibility to address any element / subtree

:* *Operational Data Tree* - Reported state of the system, published by
the providers using MD-SAL. Represents a feedback loop for applications
to observe state of the network / system.

:* *Configuration Data Tree* - Intended state of the system or network,
populated by consumers, which expreses their intention.

* *Instance Identifier* - Unique identifier of node / subtree in data
tree, which provides unambiguous information, how to retrieve node /
subtree from conceptual data trees.
* *Notification* - Asynchronous transient event (from perspective of
provider) which may be consumed by consumers and they may act upon it
* *RPC* - asynchronous request-reply message pair, when request is
triggered by consumer, send to the provider, which in future replies
with reply message.

[[messaging-patterns]]
=== Messaging Patterns

MD-SAL provides several messaging patterns, which are intended to
transfer YANG modeled data between applications to provide data-centric
integration between applications instead of API-centric integration.

* *Unicast communication*

:*
*OpenDaylight Controller:MD-SAL:Explained:Messaging_Patterns#RPCs[RPC]*
- unicast between consumer and provider, where consumer sends *request*
message to provider, which asynchronously responds with *reply* message

* *Publish / Subscribe*

:*
*OpenDaylight Controller:MD-SAL:Explained:Messaging_Patterns#Notifications[Notifications]*
- multicast message which is send by provider and is delivered to
subscribed consumers

:*
*OpenDaylight Controller:MD-SAL:Explained:Messaging_Patterns#Data_Change_Events[Data
Change Events]* - multicast asynchronous event, which is sent by data
broker if there is change in conceptual data tree, and is delivered to
subsribed consumers

*
*OpenDaylight Controller:MD-SAL:Explained:Messaging Patterns#Transactions[Data
access patterns]*

:* Transactional *reads* from conceptual *data tree* - read-only
transactions

:* Transactional *modification* to conceptual *data tree* - write
transactions

:* *Transaction Chaining*

:*
*OpenDaylight Controller:MD-SAL:Explained:Messaging_Patterns#Data_Change_Events[Data
Change Events]*

[[payload-types]]
=== Payload Types

Currently core of MD-SAL exposes two Java API / payload types:

* ** *** YANG Java Binding APIs** (binding) - Java interfaces and
transfer objects generated in compile-time from YANG model, which allows
for easy development of application tailored to specific models.
* DOM APIs (dom) - XML DOM inspired payload format, which is more
suitable for components, which interprets model and could provide
functionality from any valid YANG model (e.g. RESTCONF, data store,
Netconf).

By extension MD-SAL (via use of RESTCONF Connector) also provides REST
APIs for any YANG-modeled application. See RESTCONF for more
information.

[[additional-components]]
=== Additional components

In addition to core MD-SAL which provides implementation of core
functionality for intra-process communication and API and payload format
translation projects provides additional components:

* RESTCONF Connector - model-driven HTTP APIs to MD-SAL and applications
integrated with MD-SAL, based on draft-bierman-netconf-restconf-02.

[[assumed-knowledge]]
=== Assumed knowledge

:* Java programming

:* Maven

:* YANG Modelling language

[[assumed-environment]]
=== Assumed Environment

* Java 7

[[why-do-we-have-it]]
=== WHY DO WE HAVE IT?

* pain points addressed
* problems solved

[[painpoints]]
=== PAINPOINTS

[[how-does-it-work]]
=== HOW DOES IT WORK?

[[md-sal-design]]
==== MD-SAL Design

The data handling functionality is separated into two distinct brokers:
a binding-independent DOM Broker that interprets YANG models at runtime
and is the core component of the MD-SAL runtime, and a Binding-Aware
Broker that exposes Java APIs for plugins using binding-aware
representation of data (Java DTOs). These brokers, along with their
supporting components are shown in the following figure:
image:Arch-Fig4.jpg[Arch-Fig4.jpg,title="fig:Arch-Fig4.jpg"] The DOM
Broker uses YANG data APIs to describe data and Instance Identifiers
specific to YANG to describe paths to data in the system. Data
structures in the Binding-Aware Broker that are visible to applications
are generated from YANG models in YANG tools. The DOM Broker relies on
presence of YANG schemas, which are interpreted at runtime for
functionality-specific purposes, such as RPC routing, data store
organization, and validation of paths.

The Binding-Aware Broker relies on Java APIs, which are generated from
YANG models, and on common properties of Java DTOs, which are enforced
by code generation. Therefore data transfer optimizations (zero-copy)
are possible when a data Consumer and a data Provider are both
Binding-Aware.

The Binding-Aware Broker connects to the DOM Broker through the BA-BI
Connector, so that Binding-Aware Consumer/Provider applications/plugins
can communicate with their respective binding-independent counterparts.
The BA-BI Connector, together with the Mapping Service, the Schema
Service, the Codec Registry and the Codec Generator implement dynamic
late binding: the codecs that translate YANG data representations
between a binding-independent (DOM) format and DTOs, which are specific
to Java bindings, are auto-generated on demand.

The physical Data Store is pluggable – MD-SAL provides an SPI through
which different data store implementations can be plugged in.

The Mount concept and the support for APIs generated from models allow
for applications talking to NETCONF devices to be compiled directly
against device models – there is no need for controller-level models
that represent devices. Device models are loaded into the controller
from a NETCONF device when the controller connects to the device, and
apps can work directly with them.

[[how-does-it-fit-into-the-controller-architecture]]
==== HOW DOES IT FIT INTO THE CONTROLLER ARCHITECTURE?

MD-SAL is core integration layer, which provides inter-application
communication.

image:Arch-Fig3.jpg[MD-SAL in controller
architecture,title="MD-SAL in controller architecture"]

[[who-should-use-it]]
=== Who should use it?

MD-SAL is targeted for developers, which develops applications /
protocol plugins to be run in JVM in same process as rest of the system.

[[which-projects-dodont-use-it]]
==== WHICH PROJECTS DO/DON'T USE IT?

* Almost every Opendaylight project except Yangtools

[[education]]
== EDUCATION

[[learning-resources]]
=== Learning Resources

[[alternatives-investigated-or-possible]]
=== ALTERNATIVES (INVESTIGATED OR POSSIBLE)

* Alternatives to current approach

[[examplestutorials]]
== EXAMPLES/TUTORIALS

* See learning resources section

[[meetingsaction-itemsprogress]]
== Meetings/Action Items/Progress
