[[description]]
== Description

We have project follow-up meetings every Thursday at 8AM (PST/PDT), see
below for details.

Also we gather informally in Ericsson, Cisco or Brocade in San Jose (US)
every Thursday around 1PM (PST/PDT) to discuss test matters.

[[basic-agenda]]
== Basic Agenda

* Project news
* Tasks progress
* Q&A
* Performance discussion

[[schedule-and-logistics]]
== Schedule and Logistics

Integration meetings are held weekly every Thursday morning at 8:00 AM
PST (-8:00 GMT) / PDT (-7:00 GMT)

To participate in the next meeting, please refer to the information
below:

* Meeting URL:
https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=ME4A4AK1D71RUK0VCM1LSBW45C-9VIB&rnd=595405.44392
* Access Information
** Meeting number: 190 637 318
** Meeting password: This meeting does not require a password.
** Host key: 955850 (Use this key in the meeting if you have made
someone else the host and then want to reclaim the host role.)

* Audio Connection
** 1-855-244-8681 Call-in toll-free number (US/Canada)
** 1-650-479-3207 Call-in toll number (US/Canada)
** Access code: 190 637 318
** Need more numbers or information? Check out
https://www.webex.com/pdf/tollfree_restrictions.pdf[toll-free calling
restrictions]

[[meeting-minutes]]
== Meeting Minutes

[[section]]
=== 7/31/2014

* Minutes:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-07-31-15.01.html
* Minutes (text):
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-07-31-15.01.txt
* Log:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-07-31-15.01.log.html

[[section-1]]
=== 7/24/2014

* Minutes:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-07-24-15.01.html
* Minutes (text):
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-07-24-15.01.txt
* Log:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-07-24-15.01.log.html

[[section-2]]
=== 7/17/2014

* Minutes:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-07-17-15.05.html
* Minutes (text):
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-07-17-15.05.txt
* Log:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-07-17-15.05.log.html

[[section-3]]
=== 7/10/2014

* Minutes:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-07-10-15.04.html
* Minutes (text):
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-07-10-15.04.txt
* Log:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-07-10-15.04.log.html

[[section-4]]
=== 7/02/2014

* Minutes:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-07-02-15.04.html
* Minutes (text):
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-07-02-15.04.txt
* Log:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-07-02-15.04.log.html

[[section-5]]
=== 6/25/2014

* Minutes:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-06-25-15.02.html
* Minutes (text):
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-25-18-15.02.txt
* Log:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-06-25-15.02.log.html

[[section-6]]
=== 6/18/2014

* Minutes:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-06-18-15.01.html
* Minutes (text):
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-06-18-15.01.txt
* Log:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-06-18-15.01.log.html

[[section-7]]
=== 6/11/2014

* Minutes:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-06-11-15.03.html
* Minutes (text):
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-06-11-15.03.txt
* Log:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-06-11-15.03.log.html

[[section-8]]
=== 6/04/2014

* Minutes:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-06-04-15.02.html
* Minutes (text):
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-06-04-15.02.txt
* Log:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-06-04-15.02.log.html

[[section-9]]
=== 5/28/2014

* Minutes:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-05-28-15.01.html
* Minutes (text):
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-05-28-15.01.txt
* Log:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/weekly_integration_meeting/opendaylight-integration-weekly_integration_meeting.2014-05-28-15.01.log.html

[[section-10]]
=== 5/21/2014

* Minutes:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/intergration_weekly_meeting/opendaylight-integration-intergration_weekly_meeting.2014-05-21-15.02.html
* Minutes (text):
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/intergration_weekly_meeting/opendaylight-integration-intergration_weekly_meeting.2014-05-21-15.02.txt
* Log:
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-integration/2014/intergration_weekly_meeting/opendaylight-integration-intergration_weekly_meeting.2014-05-21-15.02.log.html

[[section-11]]
=== 5/14/2014

* Project news
** New integration IRC channel #opendaylight-integration + meebot setup
during today's call. We will use them next time.
** Still issues in OF13 plugin, Luis sending report to of plugin people
almost daily.
** We spent most of the meeting going through the release plan for
Integration. So far everybody seems to agree with candidate release
plan.
** We welcome new integration collaborator Daniel Farrel from RedHat

* Progress report
** Andy will look at the VTN coordinator deploy issue and after he will
work on second controller VM, this last in 2 weeks from now
** Luis working on OF13 test suite errors and stability + OSGi console
clean up
** Arash updated Test VM to Ubuntu 14.04 LTS. Link already available in
Test VM wiki
** Arash started to check TestON framework, he will get support from
Swaraj and Paxterra folks
** Chris pushed first robot test cases for OF13 RESCONF
** Daniel Farrel will take a look on how to display CBench results in
Jenkins

* Performance discussion
** Inventory performance using mininet or any other tool can be tested
while waiting for CBench issues to get fixed.

[[section-12]]
=== 5/06/2014

* Project news
** Stable branch works almost finished in the integration repo. We are
just holding for other projects to upload their artifacts to Nexus. Also
holding for Ed's proposal of branching now and remove non stable patches
to ease branch creation
** Due to last week changes in MD-SAL datastore we are working in
stabilizing the OF13 base edition suite in 2 separated areas: OSGi
errors/exceptions and real bugs showing up after the change
** TestON framework is ready for evaluation. They have already
implemented a plugin for OpenDaylight and the next step is to try and
feedback what needs to be done to replace the existing framework
(Robot). We will set a task in Trello for this.
** We have new admin in LF helping Andy (sorry I forgot the name), we
will get to know him very well as we work very close with LF.
** Also we welcome back Arash to the Integration calls

* Progress report
** Andy will look at the VTN coordinator deploy issue and after he will
work on second controller VM
** Madhusudhan and Luis are working on cleaning the OSGi console of
errors and report bugs for OF13 test suite stability
** Chris waiting for a bug to be fixed in order for the OF13 RESTCONF
test to work
** madhusudhan will upload working cluster test to integration repo
** Carol started to test Netconf with Brocade switch simulators

* Q&A
** David Bainbridge asked if current integration test suites are
executed at build time. The answer is no, current suites run after
editions are created and this happens after the projects build their
java artifacts (see Integration scope at
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Project_Proposals:Integration)
** Carol asked if there is an existing call for controller project. So
far controller project and more specific MD-SAL people run a weekly call
to explain new features like datastore or cluster but this is not the
same as the weekly news/progress call we do in Integration or other
projects. Luis has already asked controller leads for this, hopefully we
get the call we are looking for.

* Performance discussion
** We are waiting for a few issues described at the bottom of
performance wiki to be fixed:
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Integration_Group:Performance_Test
** Inventory performance using mininet or any other tool can be tested
while waiting for above fixed related to CBench test.

[[section-13]]
=== 4/28/2014

* Project news
** Stable branch already created in the integration repo. Cherry-picking
is also done along with new stable Jenkins jobs. We are holding for the
projects to upload their artifacts to Nexus so that we can start
building and testing the stable editions
** From OF plugin call this morning, they are still working on Netty
improvements and new datastore model. They need our help to test the new
features. Chris volunteered to help with the Ericsson Lab

* Progress report
** Andy will look at the VTN coordinator deploy issue and after he will
work on second controller VM
** Chris tested new datastore model, flow performance looks the same as
before. New datastore model will introduce lot of errors in the existing
suites, Chris will send a repot
** Madhusudhan and Luis are working on cleaning the OSGi console of
errors. After that we need to work in OF13 test suite stability
** BGP testing still ongoing according to Punal. Still needs to figure
out how to run ExaBGP in LF setup
** Carol presented Testopia to the test community, we all agreed it is a
good tool to document test plans and test cases. And it is already there
embedded in Bugzilla!

* Performance discussion
** We are waiting for the last enhancements in the OF plugin to start
reporting performance results and issues to OF plugin developers

[[section-14]]
=== 4/21/2014

* Project news
** Stable branch is still pending in Integration. Luis will create the
stable branch and will cherry-pick test related patches and recreate
test jobs. Sam and Andy will have to do the same for packaging folder.
Luis will update the distribution folder once the projects upload their
artifact in Nexus.
** No OF plugin or TWS call this Monday

* Progress report
** Andy will look at the VTN coordinator deploy issue and after he will
work on second controller VM
** Madhusudhan and Luis are working on cleaning the OSGi console of
errors
** Carol has finished Robot tutorial, she will send mail and will start
working on Testopia tutorial
** Jenkins integration wiki already available at:
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Integration_Group:Open_Labs

* Performance discussion
** Chris showed Cbench results data collected in Ericsson Lab. Results
are as expected according to Jan
** Jan also showed his results for new OF plugin controller, AD-SAL
controller and Floodlight controller using Yourkit profiler to analize
where the memory and CPU go
** It should be possible to measure Java memory without Yourkit, Chris
will look at this.
** Good news: CBench latency test shows same performance as Floodlight
** Bad news: CBench throughput has 2 issues: 1) it kills new OF plugin
controller as memory grows without control 2) bad performance as
controller cannot process more than 1 packet_in at a time
** CBench parameters can have big impact in performance results, Chris
will also take a look on this
** It will be good idea to setup a performance test bed with new OF
plugin controller + AD-SAL controller + Floodlight + Beacon so we can
compare the 4 of them
** We need to publish performance results to the community very soon,
everybody is waiting for this

[[section-15]]
=== 4/14/2014

* Project news
** Helium release plan was approved on last TSC call:
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Simultaneous_Release:Helium_Release_Plan
** Stable branch is still pending in Integration. Luis is waiting for
other projects to create the branch
** Today OF plugin call was used for bug scrub

* Progress report
** Surekha and Vaishali will work on Sonar and Jacoco for code and test
coverage
** Lakshman, Punal are testing the BGP plugin
** After updating VTN coordinator, VTN deploy job does not work anymore.
Venkat is looking at it
** Madhusudhan is trying to install mininet with LINC switch. LINC does
not support IETF models and so it cannot be handled by ODL
** Chris (Casper) is still working in writing OF plugin RESTCONF python
script in Robot FW
** Carol still to update the Robot wiki with tutorial
** Luis still to post Jenkins integration wiki

* Performance discussion
** Performance wiki is updated with all tips
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Integration_Group:Performance_Test
** We need to start collecting performance data and share it with devs.
After that we can work on the thresholds for PASS/FAIL
** Chris (Casper) will write some automation for CBench test in the
Ericsson Lab
** Ixia testing at Ericsson will not start till May
** Spirent gear not available yet at Brocade

[[section-16]]
=== 4/07/2014

* Project news
** Helium release plan is still under discussion, it will be finally
settle down during this Thursday TSC call
** Surekha presented release automation and versioning strategy during
Monday TWS call, this also generated lot of dicussion
** All projects (including Integration) have to create stable branch out
of Hydrogen release. After that they will need to change all the
SNAPSHOT versions and cherry-pick all the relevant changes from Master
branch. In addition we will need to replicate a lot of Jenkins jobs to
test stable editions. Luis will take a look on this
** From OF plugin call, new datastore model is already merged in master,
the performance looks very good (they demo 128 switches) but it is not
yet fully integrated with other OpenDaylight apps (like AD-SAL NSF)

* Progress report
** Surekha and Vaishali will work on Sonar and Jacoco for code and test
coverage
** Lakshman, Punal and Tony will test the BGP plugin
** VTN coordinator ready at LF, test cases need to be enabled at LF.
Luis will take a look on this
** Madhusudhan started Netconf test and he will focus in LINC switch
** Chris (Casper) is working in writing OF plugin RESTCONF python script
in Robot FW
** Carol to update the Robot wiki with tutorial
** Luis to create Jenkins integration wiki

* Performance discussion
** Jan gave a lot of good recommendations to test openflow performance
** Performance wiki is already updated with all tips
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Integration_Group:Performance_Test
** Ixia and Spirent tests not available yet, Ericsson and Brocade are
working on that
** OF project has a python script to stress the NB RESTCONF API. We will
consider to re-write this script in Robot FW
** Manual performance tests can start already, we will work on the
automation after we collect and analyze some results

[[section-17]]
=== 3/31/2014

* Project news
** Surekha presented release automation strategy during hackfest, we
will be supporting this activity from Integration
** Same for stable branch presented by Chris Wright, we are very
interested in this activity too because service releases will be made on
this branch
** Luis presented the test strategy where the only new is that for
Helium we will be more focus in ODL core components like NSF, SAL or OF
rather than specific apps around the controller
** Carol performed the Robot hands-On tutorial, she will update the wiki
with the slides and some recording explaining the slides (the recording
did not work at the Hackfest)
** Andy & Luis worked on the Jenkins Integration in the Ericsson lab,
Luis will create a wiki on how to do it for other labs
** Moiz will try ExaBGP plugin in virtualenv, in case it works we can
install this plugin at LF for testing BGP plugin

* Progress report
** VTN coordinator ready at LF, test cases need to be enabled at LF.
Luis will take a look on this
** Madhusudhan is still waiting for Cluster test bug, he also started
Netconf test
** Chris (Casper) will take a look on OF plugin RESTCONF python script
and will see how difficult is to port it to Robot

* Performance discussion
** Looks like controller has still some issues with CBench. Luis will
ask during next OF plugin call
** We are interested in measuring CPU + RAM during performance tests, we
will ask controller/OF plugin people about this
** Lakshman presented an enhanced python based CBench application that
is able to plot performance graphs. He will send link.
** Luis will create a wiki on performance test

[[section-18]]
=== 3/24/2014

* Project news
** General project discussions around stable branch, optional feature
branches and public drafts
** New Ericsson integration collaborator Chris O'Shea (Casper) will take
care of Ericsson Lab
** From Monday OF plugin call, they asked integration to setup the
automation for OF13 test in the Ericsson Lab during the Hackfest in Napa
** OpenDaylight Hackfest in Napa (CA) on March 27th and 28th. We will
work mon 3 topics: Performance strategy + Robot Framework + Ericsson Lab
integration (if Andy is available)

* Progress report
** VTN coordinator ready at LF but Venkat asked to wait for SW delivery
coming in the next days
** Madhusudhan has reported some issue in Cluster test, he also started
Netconf test
** Andy, Casper and Luis will start working on 3rd party Lab integration
during the Hackfest in Napa

* Performance discussion
** We agreed we have all information we need to start performance test.
** Test Flow: Setup recommended parameters -> perform test -> some
errors/wrong behaviors expected in the beginning -> send issues to
integration-dev and openflowplugin-dev
** Luis will update wiki on how to fecth controller artifacts and create
custom edition

[[section-19]]
=== 3/17/2014

* Project news
** From last week TSC call it is clear performace and stability are the
main drivers for next release
** There is the idea to start an stable branch for every project that
only containing code improvements and bug fixing but no new features
** Another idea during the TSC call is to automate the process of making
releases so that we can provide "service" releases time to time
** Great opportunity to collaborate in ODL demo creation:
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Demos_and_PoCs
** From Monday OF plugin call, they will be working on following
improvements: stats collection, new thread model and new datastore model
** Monday TWS call was around new MD-SAL datastore proposal, discussion
was around identifying current issues and defining next steps. There
will be more calls following.
** OpenDaylight Hackfest in Napa (CA) on March 27th and 28th. We will
bring 2 topics: Performance + Robot Framework

* Progress report
** Andy and Venkat still working on VTN coordinator installation at LF
** Carol will be evaluating Spirent OF simulation
** Andy, Madhusudhan and Luis will start working on 3rd party Lab
integration to ODL
** Madhusudhan has almost finished the Cluster test at Ericsson Lab

* Performance discussion
** Surekha and Vaishali (from Cisco) joined the call, they were very
interested in the integration work and the performance strategy
** We went through performance questions mail sent last week. Everybody
agreed on the inventory and flow performance values to be measured in
the beginnning
** Some discussion around the test tools: Spirent currently supports
OF13 simulation (same as Ixia) and CBench is surprisingly included in
our integration test VM
** Next step will be to agree on the test conditions so that we can
start measuring and collecting results. Luis will send a proposal this
week

[[section-20]]
=== 3/10/2014

* Project news
** We have new Lab available at Huawei in China (thanks Guangpeng):
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Integration_Group:East_Test_Lab
** We also have new contributor Greg Hall from Brocade joining the call.
Welcome Greg to Integration team.
** For the next release we are going to focus very much on performance
and stability. Not only us but also the rest of the projects
** This week we will kickoff performance team initiative driven by
integration group and joined by several project people
** OpenDaylight Hackfest in Napa (CA) on March 27th and 28th. We will
try bring 2 topics: Performance + Robot Framework

* Progress
** Some clean up is done in the Trello tool to reflect new priorities
** Andy and Venkat still working on VTN coordinator installation at LF.
Worst case we can install and run the test in Ericsson or Huawei Labs
** Carol is looking at some examples and templates to illustrate Robot
framework
** Luis will start working on Ericsson-LF Jenkins integration
** Madhusudhan will start integrating Cluster test at Ericsson Lab

* Q&A

[[old-meeting-minutes]]
== Old Meeting Minutes

Check CrossProject:Integration_Group:Minutes[ here]

Category:Integration Group[Category:Integration Group]
