[[opflex-policy-agent-architecture]]
== OpFlex Policy Agent Architecture

[[the-fine-print]]
=== The Fine Print

This document is considered a working document in that it is intended to
be a place holder for the project and as the Policy Agent under goes
development, this document will change as well and at time be outdated.

[[overview]]
=== Overview

This document describes the architecture proposed for the open source
Policy Agent for the implementation that will implement the OpFlex
protocol. Before one discusses the details of the architecture and
assumptions therein, an overview of where and how the Policy Agent will
fit into and overall system design is in order. The following is that
overview of a Policy system and its various functions. The policy
agent’s function is to exchange and enforce policy, acting as a
participant in a larger policy management system. Figure 1-1 is an
example of such a system. The agent is a Policy Element (PE), which
requests Policy Resolution and receives Policy Updates from a Policy
Repository (PR). The agent can also indicate the declaration of new End
Points to an End Point Registry (EPR), and receive Policy Resolutions
and Updates for the End Points. Status information is sent to an
Observer, which collects and archives the status. The agent can also
trigger behaviors in peering Policy Elements, using the Policy Trigger
message. A more complete description of an Policy system can be found in
[1].

image:S1mdMlrjSoE4t3CGd59GX8A.png[S1mdMlrjSoE4t3CGd59GX8A.png,title="S1mdMlrjSoE4t3CGd59GX8A.png"]

[[policy-and-policy-resolution]]
==== Policy and Policy Resolution

A primary function of the policy architecture is the delivery and
maintenance of Managed Object (MO) subtrees. Each Policy Element has a
Managed Object Store, which provides a means for local caching of policy
in the form of Managed Objects. Managed Objects are considered subtrees
of a larger Management Information Tree (MIT). The MIT is the superset
of all possible policies, and is generated from a user-defined policy
model. There are two types of policy models. One is a “Logical Model” in
which fabric-specific details are abstracted into an equivalent logical
representation. The other is a “Concrete Model” in which the objects in
the model refer to physical network elements. The Logical Model is used
to create a MIT that can be imported in the policy controller, as well
as MO library that can be integrated in the agent (Figure 1-3).

image:SoQ8NTo_lvD95rDSmZRQ-Ow.png [SoQ8NTo_lvD95rDSmZRQ-Ow.png ,title="SoQ8NTo_lvD95rDSmZRQ-Ow.png "]

*Figure 1-3: Generated Policy Model*

Each type of policy is uniquely identified in a given context by its
name, where context can be specific to a tenant, a shared common tenant,
etc. Resources that use a policy refer to this policy by its name, and a
hierarchical closest matching policy is resolved. If no named match
exists, a default policy is resolved.

Policy resolution is typically implicit, meaning that it is triggered
via a set of internal APIs in the PE as a side effect of a change /
stimulus, such as an endpoint attach. Policy resolution consists of
sending logical policies to Policy Elements, which maintain read-only
copies of the logical policies and apply changes to corresponding
concrete model objects. Whenever possible, sets of related policies are
resolved together in a single transaction to Policy Elements.

The Policy Repository persists information about which policies are in
use and where they have been resolved in an internal registry. When
there are subsequent changes to policies -- such as property
modifications and lifecycle changes (creation, deletion) -- the Policy
Repository sends update notifications to Policy Elements where the
affected policies are in use. It is the responsibility of Policy
Repository to push the updates to policies that it owns to all the
policy clients of the policy. For each policy, the Policy Repository
maintains the list of policy clients and policy consumers. As mentioned
in above, when a policy is resolved, all policies with that name in the
hierarchy are in-scope policies and would be resolved. Whenever a policy
is updated, the updated policy is pushed down to all policy clients. The
Policy Update message is only used to provide updates to policies that
have already been provided to a Policy Element, and not to install an
entirely new policy. The Policy Resolution message from the Policy
Element must be used to request new policies (i.e. MO sub-trees that the
PE doesn’t yet have).

[[opflex-background]]
=== OpFlex Background

To implement declarative control, a new mechanism is required to
transfer abstract policy from a network policy controller to a set of
smart devices capable of rendering abstract policy. Unfortunately,
existing protocols such as OVSDB favor imperative models and rigid
schematics, so they are not appropriate for this use case. In Fact,
devOps tools such as Puppet or CFEngine take a similar approach to
OpFlex in using declarative languages to configure server resources.

OpFlex was designed to augment rather than replace these tools by
focusing on additional requirements of the network and policies that
must span multiple network devices. For example, OpFlex includes a
native mechanism for identity resolution used to define declarative
policies between two different network endpoints.Cisco, along with
partners including Microsoft, Red Hat, Citrix, F5, Canonical, and
Embrane, developed OpFlex to address this challenge. OpFlex is an open
and extensible policy protocol for transferring abstract policy in XML
or JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) between a network policy controller
such as the Cisco APIC and any device, including hypervisor switches,
physical switches, and Layer 4 through 7 network services. Cisco and its
partners are working through the IETF and open source community to
standardize OpFlex and provide a reference implementation.

image:CFPOpflexDrawing1.jpg[CFPOpflexDrawing1.jpg,title="CFPOpflexDrawing1.jpg"]

[[opflex-description]]
=== OpFlex Description

OpFlex is designed to allow a data exchange of a set of managed objects
that is defined as part of an informational model. OpFlex itself does
not dictate the information model and can be used with any tree-based
abstract model in which each node in the tree has a universal resource
identifier (URI) associated with it.

The protocol is designed to support XML and JSON (as well as the binary
encoding used in some scenarios) and to use standard remote procedure
call (RPC) mechanisms such as JSON-RPC over TCP. The use of a secure
channel through Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) and Transport Layer Security
(TLS) is also recommended.

The protocol defines a number of logical constructs required for its
operation (Figure 2).

image:Don2.jpg[Don2.jpg,title="Don2.jpg"]

[[policy-repository]]
==== Policy Repository

The policy repository (PR) is a logically centralized entity containing
the definition of all policies governing the behavior of the system. In
Cisco ACI, this function is performed by the Cisco APIC or by the leaf
nodes of the network fabric. The policy authority handles policy
resolution requests from each policy element.

[[policy-element-policy-agent]]
==== Policy Element (Policy Agent)

A policy element (PE) is a logical abstraction for a physical or virtual
device that implements and enforces policy. This is where the Policy
Agent describe in detail herein resides. Policy elements are responsible
for requesting portions of the policy from the policy authority as new
endpoints connect, disconnect, or change. Additionally, policy elements
are responsible for rendering that policy from an abstract form into a
concrete form that maps to their internal capabilities. This process is
a local operation and can function differently on each device as long as
the semantics of the policy are honored.

[[endpoint-registry]]
==== Endpoint Registry

The endpoint registry (ER) stores the current operation state (identity,
location, etc.) of each endpoint (EP) in the system. The endpoint
registry receives information about each endpoint from the local policy
element and then can share it with other policy elements in the system.
The endpoint registry may be physically co-located with the policy
authority, but it may also be distributed in the network fabric itself.
In Cisco’s ACI solution, the endpoint registry actually lives in a
distributed database within the network itself to provide additional
performance and resiliency.

[[opflex-protocol-messages]]
=== Opflex Protocol Messages

Table 1 Summarizes the RPC methods that OpFlex supports. It is not
intended to provide a full description, but to to show how different
entities interact through the protocol.

Table 1. RPC Methods Supported by OpFlex.

image:Don3.jpg[Don3.jpg,title="Don3.jpg"]
