[[bgp-overall-architecture]]
== BGP overall architecture

image:BGP-overall.png [ center | BGP
dependencies,title=" center | BGP dependencies"]

BGP elements: message, attribute, capability, nlri, parameter, address
family, subsequent address family.

[[bgp-concepts]]
=== BGP concepts

This module contains the base BGP concepts contained in
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4271[RFC4271],
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4760[RFC4760],
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4456[RFC4456],
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1997[RFC1997] and
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4360[RFC4360].

All the concepts are described in one yang model :
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/concepts/src/main/yang/bgp-types.yang;hb=HEAD[bgp-types.yang]
.

Outside generated classes, there is just one class
_https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/concepts/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/bgp/concepts/NextHopUtil.java;hb=HEAD[NextHopUtill]_
that contains methods for serializing and parsing NextHop.

[[bgp-parser]]
=== BGP parser

The following picture summarizes the dependencies of BGP parser modules.

image:Bgp-parser.png [ center | BGP parser
dependencies,title=" center | BGP parser dependencies"]

Before you start reading any further, make sure you read first the
general parsing/serializing overview described in
BGP LS PCEP:Developer Guide#Serialization_and_deserialization_of_protocol_messages[Developer
Guide]. Base BGP parser includes messages and attributes from
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4271[RFC4271],
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4760[RFC4760],
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1997[RFC1997] and
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4360[RFC4360].

_API_ module defines BGP messages in YANG.

_IMPL_ module contains actual parsers and serializers for BGP messages
and
_https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/parser-impl/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/parser/impl/BGPActivator.java;hb=HEADl[Activator]_
class

_SPI_ module contains helper classes needed for registering parsers into
activators

[[registration]]
==== Registration

As mentioned before, all parsers and serializers need to be registered
into _Extension provider_. This _Extension provider_ is configured in
initial configuration of the parser-spi module (_31-bgp.xml_).

code,xml,numberLines----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
code,xml,numberLines
 <module>
  <type xmlns:prefix="urn:opendaylight:params:xml:ns:yang:controller:bgp:parser:spi">prefix:bgp-extensions-impl</type>
  <name>global-bgp-extensions</name>
  <extension>
   <type xmlns:bgpspi="urn:opendaylight:params:xml:ns:yang:controller:bgp:parser:spi">bgpspi:extension</type>
   <name>base-bgp-parser</name>
  </extension>
  <extension>
   <type xmlns:bgpspi="urn:opendaylight:params:xml:ns:yang:controller:bgp:parser:spi">bgpspi:extension</type>
   <name>bgp-linkstate</name>
  </extension>
 </module>
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* 6: _base-bgp-parser_ - will register parsers and serializers
implemented in bgp-parser-impl module

* 10: _bgp-linkstate_ - will register parsers and serializers
implemented in bgp-linkstate module

How to register your own extension to BGP parser, is described in this
BGP_LS_PCEP:Developer_Guide#Writing_an_extension_to_BGP[tutorial].
Bgp-linkstate module is a good example of a BGP parser extension.

Configuration of bgp-parser-spi specifies one implementation of
_Extension provider_ that will take care of registering mentioned parser
extensions:
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/parser-spi/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/parser/spi/pojo/SimpleBGPExtensionProviderContext.java;hb=refs/heads/master[SimpleBGPExtensionProviderContext].
All registries are implemented in package
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=tree;f=bgp/parser-spi/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/parser/spi;hb=refs/heads/master[bgp-parser-spi].

[[parsing]]
==== Parsing

Parsing follows patterns described in
BGP LS PCEP:Developer Guide#Parsing[Developer Guide].

[[serializing]]
==== Serializing

Serializing of BGP elements is mostly done as described in
BGP LS PCEP:Developer Guide#Serialization[Developer Guide], the only
exception is the serialization of Path Attributes, that is described
here. Path Attributes are different from any other BGP element, as
PathAttributes don't implement PathAttributes interface, but this
interface contains getters for individual Path Attributes (this
structure is because Update message can contain exactly one instance of
each Path Attribute). This means, that given _PathAttributes_ object,
you can only get to the specific type of the Path Attribute through
checking its presence. Therefore method _serialize()_ in
AttributeRegistry, won't look up the registered class, instead it will
go through the registrations and offer this object to the each
registered parser. This way the object will be passed also to
serializers unknown to module bgp-parser, for example to
LinkstateAttributeParser. RFC4271 recommends to order Path Attributes,
hence the serializers are ordered in a list as they are registered in
the _Activator_. In other words, this is the only case, where
registration ordering matters.

image:PathAttributesSerialization.png[
PathAttributesSerialization,title=" PathAttributesSerialization"]

_serialize()_ method in each Path Attribute parser contains check for
presence of its attribute in the PathAttributes object, which simply
ends the method, if the attribute is not there:

code,java--------------------------------------------------- code,java
 if (pathAttributes.getAtomicAggregate() == null) {
     return;
 }
 //continue with serialization of Atomic Aggregate
---------------------------------------------------

[[bgp-rib]]
=== BGP RIB

image:Bgp-rib.png [ center | BGP RIB
dependencies,title=" center | BGP RIB dependencies"]

BGP RIB module can be divided into two semantic parts. BGP listener and
speaker session handling and RIB (Route information base) handling.

[[session-handling]]
==== Session handling

Session handling for both speaker and listener is described in general
BGP_LS_PCEP:Developer_Guide#Channel_handlers[here].

_31-bgp.xml_ defines only bgp-dispatcher and the parser it should be
using (global-bgp-extensions).

code,xml---------------------------------------- code,xml
 <module>
 <type>prefix:bgp-dispatcher-impl</type>
 <name>global-bgp-dispatcher</name>
 <bgp-extensions>
  <type>bgpspi:extensions</type>
  <name>global-bgp-extensions</name>
 </bgp-extensions>
 <boss-group>
  <type>netty:netty-threadgroup</type>
  <name>global-boss-group</name>
 </boss-group>
 <worker-group>
  <type>netty:netty-threadgroup</type>
  <name>global-worker-group</name>
 </worker-group>
 </module>
----------------------------------------

For user configuration of BGP, check BGP LS PCEP:User Guide#BGP[this
site].

[[synchronization]]
==== Synchronization

Synchronization is a phase, where upon connection, BGP speaker sends all
available data about topology to its new client. After the whole
topology has been advertized, the synchronization is over. For the
listener, the synchronization is over when the RIB receives End-of-RIB
(EOR) messages. There is a special EOR message for each AFI.

* IPv4 EOR is an empty Update message
* Ipv6 EOR is an Update message with empty MP_UNREACH attribute where
AFI and SAFI are set to Ipv6. ODL also supports EOR for IPv4 in this
format
* Linkstate EOR is an Update message with empty MP_UNREACH attribute
where AFI and SAFI are set to Linkstate

For BGP connection, where both peers support graceful restart, the EORs
are sent by BGP speaker and are redirected to RIB, where the specific
AFI/SAFI table is set to _true_. Without graceful restart, the messages
are generated by ODL itself and sent after second keepalive for each
AFI/SAFI. This is done in
_https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/rib-impl/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/rib/impl/BGPSynchronization.java;hb=refs/heads/master[BGPSynchronization]_

*Peers*

_https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/rib-impl/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/rib/impl/BGPPeer.java;hb=refs/heads/master[BGPPeer]_
has various meanings. If you configure BGP listener, _BGPPeer_
represents the BGP listener itself. If you are configuring BGP speaker,
you need to provide a list of peers, that are allowed to connect to this
speaker. Connections from unknown peers will be refused. _BGPPeer_
represents in this case peer, that is supposed to connect to your
speaker. _BGPPeer_ is stored in
_https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/rib-impl/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/rib/impl/StrictBGPPeerRegistry.java;hb=refs/heads/masterl[BGPPeerRegistry]_.
This registry controls the number of sessions. Strict implementation
limits sessions to one per peer.

_https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/rib-impl/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/rib/impl/ApplicationPeer.java;hb=refs/heads/master[ApplicationPeer]_
is a special case of peer, that has it's own RIB. This RIB is populated
from RESTCONF. The RIB is synchronized with default BGP RIB. Incoming
routes to default RIB are treated in the same way as they were from a
BGP peer (speaker or listener) in the network.

[[rib-handling]]
==== RIB handling

RIB (Route Information Base) is defined as a concept in
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4271#section-3.2[RFC4271]. RFC does not
define how the implementation should look like. In our implementation,
the routes are stored in MD-SALs data-store. There are four supported
routes - _Ipv4Routes_, _Ipv6Routes_, _LinkstateRoutes_ and
_FlowspecRoutes_.

Each route type needs to provide a
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/rib-spi/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/rib/spi/RIBSupport.java;hb=HEAD[RIBSupport.java]
implementation. _RIBSupport_ tells RIB how to parse binding-aware data
(BGP Update message) to binding-independent (datastore format).

Following picture describes the data flow from BGP message that is sent
to _BGPPeer_ to datastore and various types of RIB.

image:RIB.png[RIB,title="RIB"]

*https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/rib-impl/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/rib/impl/AdjRibInWriter.java;hb=refs/heads/master[AdjRibInWriter]*
- represents the first step in putting data to datastore. This writer is
notified whenever a peer receives an Update message. The message is
transformed into binding-independent format and pushed into datastore to
_adj-rib-in_. This RIB is associated with a peer.

*https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/rib-impl/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/rib/impl/EffectiveRibInWriter.java;hb=refs/heads/master[EffectiveRibInWriter]*
- this writer is notified whenever _adj-rib-in_ is updated. It applies
all configured import policies to the routes and stores them in
_effective-rib-in_. This RIB is also associated with a peer.

*https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/rib-impl/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/rib/impl/LocRibWriter.java;hb=refs/heads/master[LocRibWriter]*
- this writer is notified whenever *any* _effective-rib-in_ is updated
(in any peer). Performs best path selection filtering and stores the
routes in _loc-rib_. It also determines which routes need to be
advertised and fills in _adj-rib-out_ that is per peer as well.

*https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/rib-impl/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/rib/impl/AdjRibOutListener.java;h=a14fd54a29ea613b381a36248f67491d968963b8;hb=refs/heads/master[AdjRibOutListener]*
- listens for changes in _adj-rib-out_, transforms the routes into
BGPUpdate messages and sends them to its associated peer.

[[configuration]]
===== Configuration

code,xml--------------------------------------------- code,xml
 <module>
  <type>prefix:bgp-rib-extensions-impl</type>
  <name>global-rib-extensions</name>
  <extension>
   <type>ribspi:extension</type>
   <name>base-bgp-rib</name>
  </extension><extension>
   <type>ribspi:extension</type>
   <name>bgp-linkstate</name>
  </extension>
 </module>
---------------------------------------------

[[bgp-inet]]
=== BGP inet

This module contains only one YANG model
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/inet/src/main/yang/bgp-inet.yang;hb=refs/heads/master[bgp-inet.yang]
that summarizes the ipv4 and ipv6 extensions to RIB routes and BGP
messages.

[[bgp-flowspec]]
=== BGP flowspec

BGP flowspec is a module that implements
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5575[RFC5575]. The RFC defines an
extension to BGP in form of a new subsequent address family, nlri and
extended communities. All of those are defined in
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/flowspec/src/main/yang/bgp-flowspec.yang;hb=refs/heads/master[bgp-flowspec.yang]
model. In addition to generated sources, the module contains parsers for
newly defined elements and RIBSupport for flowspec-routes. Route key of
flowspec routes is a string representing human-readable flowspec
request.

[[bgp-linkstate]]
=== BGP linkstate

BGP linkstate is a module that implements
http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-idr-ls-distribution-04[draft-ietf-idr-ls-distribution]
in version 04. The draft defines an extension to BGP in form of a new
address family, subsequent address family, nlri and path attribute. All
of those are defined in
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/linkstate/src/main/yang/bgp-linkstate.yang;hb=refs/heads/master[bgp-linkstate.yang]
model. In addition to generated sources, the module contains
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/linkstate/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/linkstate/attribute/LinkstateAttributeParser.java;hb=refs/heads/master[LinkstateAttributeParser],
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/linkstate/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/linkstate/nlri/LinkstateNlriParser.java;hb=refs/heads/master[LinkstateNlriParser],
activators for both, parser and RIB, and RIBSupport handler for
linkstate address family. As each route needs a key, in case of
linkstate, the route key is defined as a binary string, containing all
the nlri serialized to byte format.

[[configuration-1]]
==== Configuration

Configuration of bgp-linkstate module is very simple. Since initial
implementation of version 03, IANA has already approved a type for
Linkstate path attribute. Early value was *99*, allocated value is *29*.
The configuration default is to keep it at *99*. Depending on your BGP
peer, you can turn on the usage of new value by editing following lines
in _31-bgp.xml_:

code,xml------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
code,xml
<module>
  <type xmlns:prefix="urn:opendaylight:params:xml:ns:yang:controller:bgp:linkstate">prefix:bgp-linkstate</type>
  <name>bgp-linkstate</name>
  <!-- IANA has issued an early allocation for the BGP Linkstate path attribute (=29).
   To preserve (TYPE = 99) set value bellow to false; to use IANA assigned type set the value to true or remove (true by default)-->
   <iana-linkstate-attribute-type>false</iana-linkstate-attribute-type>
 </module>
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[bgp-topology-provider]]
=== BGP topology provider

BGP data is besides RIB, also stored in network-topology view. The
format of how the data is displayed there conforms
https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-clemm-netmod-yang-network-topo-01[draft-clemm-netmod-yang-network-topo].

[[bgp-util]]
=== BGP util

This module is an util class that is used in bgp-rib-mock. It's purpose
is very straightforward, converting binary or hex BGP message dumps into
Java BGP message objects.

https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/util/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/util/BinaryBGPDumpFileParser.java;hb=HEAD[BinaryDump
parser] converts binary dump file that can contain various BGP messages
in binary format with no extra characters.

https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/util/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/util/HexDumpBGPFileParser.java;hb=HEAD[HexDump
parser] converts hex dump in following template:

`Received BGP Open message. Length:61` +
 +
`ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff  ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff` +
`00 3d 01 04 00 48 00 b4  28 28 28 28 20 02 06 01 ` +
`04 00 01 00 01 02 06 01  04 40 04 00 47 02 02 80 ` +
`00 02 02 02 00 02 06 41  04 00 00 00 48 ` +
 +
`Received BGP Update message. Length:81` +
 +
`ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff  ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff` +
`00 51 02 00 00 00 1c 40  01 01 00 40 02 00 40 03 ` +
`04 0a 19 02 1b 80 04 04  00 00 00 00 40 05 04 00 ` +
`00 00 64 20 cb 14 a0 28  20 c9 14 a0 28 20 c7 14 ` +
`a0 28 20 c5 14 a0 28 20  c3 14 a0 28 20 28 28 28 ` +
`28`

You can find examples for each input in testing folder in this module.
