[[technical-architecture]]
== Technical Architecture

In overall OpenDaylight architecture, BGPCEP as a project is dependent
on _yangtools_ project, for generating Java API out of YANG models, and
on _controller_ (MD-SAL), for storing data. The controller contains also
component _protocol-framework_, which is a wrapper on
http://netty.io[netty] and this is used to handle TCP connections used
in both protocols. Another dependency in controller is on
_config-subsystem_. All configuration in BGPCEP is done using this
component. Both BGP and PCEP protocols support MD5, therefore _TCPMD5_
is another dependency of BGPCEP.

image:Overall_arch.png[Overall
architecture,title="Overall architecture"]

BGP and PCEP implementations are independent of each other, but they
share some dependencies as seen in following picture, namely components
concepts, util and rsvp. For more information about any component,
consult BGP LS PCEP:Component Map[Component Map]. Each box in the
diagram represents a *-parent component.

image:bgpcep-dependencies.png[Dependencies inside
BGPCEP,title="Dependencies inside BGPCEP"]

For more information about BGP architecture, click
BGP LS PCEP:BGP[here]. For PCEP, click BGP LS PCEP:PCEP[here].

[[overall-structure]]
=== Overall structure

Generally a component is a compact set of Java classes that represent
one topic. Components in BGPCEP consist of three parts:

* API - public
* SPI - public
* IMPL - private

Where needed, part of any component is the configuration, which uses
config-subsystem. Configuration models are always in separate packages.

[[api]]
==== API

Most of Java API is generated from YANG models. Some components consist
of only a YANG model and generated source code. You can find list of
models BGP LS PCEP:Models[here]. API packages are public and are subject
to API freeze.

[[spi]]
==== SPI

SPI packages contain classes that usually are not generated, but
nevertheless part of the API. Also SPI packages cannot be changed after
API freeze. A typical class in SPI is an abstract class, that implements
an interface from API package and whose subclasses are located in IMPL
package. This class can be also extended by the user.

[[impl]]
==== IMPL

Implementation of API/SPI, subject to code freeze.

[[serialization-and-deserialization-of-protocol-messages]]
=== Serialization and deserialization of protocol messages

_Protocol element_ : general name for a specific part of a protocol,
e.g. message, object, attribute (differs for each protocol)

__ : any given protocol element name

Parsing and serializing in BGPCEP project is very similar for both
protocols involved. Here we present the mechanisms of parsing and
serialization that are common for both protocols. In
BGP LS PCEP:BGP[BGP] and BGP LS PCEP:PCEP[PCEP] sites you can find more
protocol specific information about parsers. The classes which are
responsible for parsing and serialization are called _Parser.java_.
Despite the name, they also involve serialization, as shown in following
class diagram.

image:Parser-hierarchy.png[Parser dependency,title="Parser dependency"]

[[message-lifecycle]]
==== Message lifecycle

Message lifecycle begins in the network, where message is sent to ODL
instance through TCP and ends in _Session_. Serialization is the same
process, but reversed, therefore we'll only describe parsing. TCP
session is handled by Netty a third-party library, and _framework_ which
is a component in the controller build atop of Netty. In BGPCEP there
are a few classes in each protocol that serve as Netty handlers. For
more information about Netty pipeline, consult their website
_http://netty.io_. Netty and _protocol-framework_ module convert
incoming bytes into one ByteBuf object per message. ByteBufs are then
sent to parsers. Parsed message is given to _Session_.

image:Netty-parsing.png[Message lifecycle,title="Message lifecycle"]

[[channel-handlers]]
==== Channel handlers

Both protocols have designated a few classes to handle TCP connection
and session establishment. In BGP, the classes are in
_BGP_LS_PCEP:BGP#BGP_RIB[rib-impl]_ module, in PCEP, they are in module
_BGP_LS_PCEP:PCEP#PCEP[pcep-impl]_. In Lithium, we plan on moving those
classes to separate packages and reduce the channel handling in general.

* _Dispatcher_ classes create server and/or client (e.g.
_https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/rib-impl/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/rib/impl/BGPDispatcherImpl.java;hb=refs/heads/master[BGPDispatcherImpl]_)
* _HandlerFactory_ classes define encoder and decoder handlers for the
Netty pipeline, _ByteToMessageDecoder_ and _MessageToBytEncoder_ are the
actual decoders/encoders (e.g.
_https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/rib-impl/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/rib/impl/BGPHandlerFactory.java;hb=refs/heads/master[BGPHandlerFactory]_)
* _MessageHeaderDecoder_ tells Netty how the message header looks in
specific protocol (e.g.
_https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/rib-impl/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/rib/impl/BGPMessageHeaderDecoder.java;hb=refs/heads/master[BGPMessageHeaderDecoder]_)

Session negotiation is not handled in _Session_ object, but rather in
_SessionNegotiator_. _Session_ is created, when the negotiation is over.

* _AbstractSessionNegotiator_ negotiates the session proposals (e.g.
_https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/rib-impl/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/rib/impl/AbstractBGPSessionNegotiator.java;hb=refs/heads/master[AbstractBGPSessionNegotiator]_)

After the negotiation is completed, message handling is moved to
_Session_ object (e.g.
_https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/rib-impl/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/rib/impl/BGPSessionImpl.java;hb=refs/heads/master[BGPSessionImpl]_).

[[registration]]
==== Registration

All parsers and serializers need to be registered into _Extension
provider_. This _Extension provider_ is configured in initial
configuration for each protocol. Configuration specifies one
implementation of _Extension provider_ that will take care of
registering parser extensions (in BGP its
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/parser-spi/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/parser/spi/pojo/SimpleBGPExtensionProviderContext.java;hb=refs/heads/master[SimpleBGPExtensionProviderContext]).
Note, that also base-parser needs to be specified as an extension. Class
that actually registers parsers and serializers, is called _Activator_.
Each extension has its own _Activator_. Each protocol element has its
own _Registry_. _Registry_ is responsible for choosing the correct
parser implementation based on element class or element type. Class
_Extension Consumer_ allows accessing these registries.

image:Registration.png[Registration,title="Registration"]

[[parsing]]
==== Parsing

Parsing is done in a layered way shown in following diagram. It starts
in a Netty handler, _ByteToMessageDecoder_. All _parse()_ methods take
two arguments, _buffer_ and _builder_. _Buffer_ is of type _ByteBuf_,
_builder_ type depends on the element that is being parsed. Both
protocols have message header. This header is parsed in
_AbstractMessageParser_ and it contains the information about the type
of the message we are parsing. Knowing the type, the class looks into
registry and chooses correct parser for this type of message. The header
is stripped from the _buffer_ and just the necessary information is
passed to the _SpecificMessageParser_.

image:Parsing.png[Protocol message
parsing,title="Protocol message parsing"]

Depending of the nature of the message, this process is repeated until
the buffer is empty, or an unrecoverable error occurs. Unrecoverable
error means that there is a syntax error, e.g. the length specified in
element length field does not match the length of readable bytes in
given buffer. Some of those errors need to be followed by specific steps
described in a RFC. Those errors are thrown in form of
_DocumentedException_. Both protocols have an enum _Errors_ that
contains all possible values for _DocumentedException_. Any other error
that is not specified by RFC is thrown in form of
_DeserializerException_.

[[serialization]]
==== Serialization

Serialization is also done in a layered way, from the biggest element to
smallest. It starts in _Sessions sendMessage()_ method. Message is then
sent to _AbstractMessageParser_ which will call _SpecificMessageParser_
based on the java class of the message. All _serialize()_ methods take
two arguments, _buffer_ and the protocol element. _Buffer_ is of type
_ByteBuf_. Each parser first creates an empty _valueBuffer_, serializes
the value of the protocol element and writes the contents in the
_valueBuffer_. This is done to obtain the length of the content, because
most protocol elements require a header with a length field.
_ValueBuffer_, _buffer_ and other arguments needed to create element
header are then sent to a _Util_ class (e.g.
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=bgp/parser-spi/src/main/java/org/opendaylight/protocol/bgp/parser/spi/AttributeUtil.java;hb=refs/heads/master[AttributeUtil]).
Those classes only contain one method _format()_. Call to _format()_
method is always the last one in each parser. This method calculates
element length field based on _valueBuffer_, creates element header and
writes everything into _buffer_. Serializing is then returned to
original parser and resumed as shown in following diagram.

image:Serialization.png[Serialization,title="Serialization"]

[[general-components-overview]]
== General Components Overview

[[concepts]]
=== Concepts

Concepts module introduces DTOs used throughout whole BGPCEP project,
such as various registries. YANG as a modeling language does not have
specified the type IEEE754 floating point. Therefore this module
introduces a wrapper typedef over byte array: float16, float32 and
float64. Definitions can be found in
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=concepts/src/main/yang/ieee754.yang;hb=refs/heads/master[ieee754.yang].
Those types are then used in
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=concepts/src/main/yang/network-concepts.yang;hb=refs/heads/master[network-concepts.yang]
to model metric and bandwidth.

[[util]]
=== Util

Util module groups util classes used throughout BGPCEP project. Amongst
them are classes dealing with raw byte array, ByteBuf, Ipv4/6
addresses/prefixes.

[[rsvp]]
=== RSVP

This module contains the definition of types related to Resource
Reservation Protocol (RSVP). All types are defined in
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/gitweb?p=bgpcep.git;a=blob;f=rsvp/api/src/main/yang/rsvp.yang;hb=refs/heads/master[rsvp.yang].

[[topology-overview]]
== Topology Overview

[[topology-tunnel]]
=== Topology tunnel

[[programmatic-interfaces]]
== Programmatic Interface(s)

* Howto pull code from gerrit:
GettingStarted:Pulling,_Hacking,_and_Pushing_All_the_Code_from_the_CLI +
* Gerrit repository: https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/bgpcep[gerrit]
* Bugzilla: https://bugs.opendaylight.org/[Bugzilla]

* Mailing lists

::
  _bgpcep-dev@opendaylight.org_ +
  +
  _bgpcep-users@opendaylight.org_ +

* YANG Models - BGP LS PCEP:Models[BGP LS PCEP:Models]

* API Documentation is generated with command: mvn site and can be found
in target/site directory.

For debugging purposes, set lower log levels for bgpcep project in karaf
console :

`log:set TRACE org.opendaylight.bgpcep `

`log:set TRACE org.opendaylight.protocol`

or in etc/org.ops4j.pax.logging.cfg :

`log4j.logger.org.opendaylight.protocol=TRACE` +
`log4j.logger.org.opendaylight.bgpcep=TRACE`
