The project aim is to provide Yang models for both multi-layer and
multi-technology topology view, both augmenting the network-topology
Yang data model already in use inside OpenDaylight architecture.

The multi-layer topology shall include each single building topology
view as associated to specific layers and shall build up the correlation
across them in terms of basic network elements (node, termination-point,
links). In that way, a global topology graph embracing multiple network
layers shall be available.

The multi-technology topology shall result as an extension of the
network-topology model in order to describe all the cross-technologies
information in a normalized fashion. The constraints model shall be able
to capture also application driven constraints, in compliance with the
SDN paradigm, in addition to native and controller specific ones. That
will contribute in providing a normalized view of the network.

The OpenDaylight Yang data models related to network-topologies and its
augmentations are described at the following link:

https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/YANG_Tools:Available_Models[https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/YANG_Tools:Available_Models]

The proposal aims to reuse those models and preserving the currently
available implementations.

Further, at northbound interface level, the Operator will have the
chance to specify which topologies want to be included within the
multi-layer topology to make the approach as flexible and configurable
based on specific needs.

No updates to OpenDaylight inventory model are planned.

Let us see how the multi-layer and multi-technology view can be build
starting from the following sample network comprising four photonic
nodes and three IP routers.

Herein shown is the physical topology used in this example.

image:Sample_net.jpg[Sample_net.jpg,title="Sample_net.jpg"]

_Fig. 1 - Sample network physical topology_

The photonic plug-in is aware of:

image:Four photonic nodes.jpg[Four photonic nodes.jpg,title="Four photonic nodes.jpg"]

'' Fig. 2 - Photonic topology''

IP router plugin is aware of:

image:Three_ip_nodes.jpg[Three_ip_nodes.jpg,title="Three_ip_nodes.jpg"]

_Fig. 3 - Initial IP topology_

And eventually, as soon as forwarding adjacency will be notified to the
control plane, an additional link will be part of the layer-3 topology,
as herein shown:

image:Three_ip_nodes_and_adj.jpg[Three_ip_nodes_and_adj.jpg,title="Three_ip_nodes_and_adj.jpg"]

_Fig. 4 - Resulting IP topology_

Further, the links connecting nodes belonging to different technology
(in this example, photonic and IP) are reported in a specific topology,
the inter-technology topology herein depicted:

image:Inter-tech.jpg[Inter-tech.jpg,title="Inter-tech.jpg"]

_Fig. 5 - Inter-technology topology_

If those nodes do not share any discovery mechanism, no plug-in can
advertise them and hence they need explicit provisioning at
configuration level. In general that could be the case whenever
interconnected nodes do not share any plugin.

As a whole, the resulting topologies are:

image:Resulting_topo.jpg[Resulting_topo.jpg,title="Resulting_topo.jpg"]

_Fig. 6 - Layer topologies_

The picture above shows all three layers (photonic, inter-technology and
IP) each one exported by its own specific topology model.

The resulting multi-layer and multi-technology topology is shown in the
picture below. Four photonic nodes are building up the layer 0 network
and three IP routers the layer-3 network. Inter-technology links and
termination points allow the communication across layers.

image:Mlmt_topo_circle.jpg[Mlmt_topo_circle.jpg,title="Mlmt_topo_circle.jpg"]

_Fig. 7 - Resulting normalized topology with Forwarding Adjacency_

In that way, instead of targeting layer by layer, the Operator shall
have already available northbound the normalized topology view of the
network as determined by the multi-layer and multi-technology model.

The set of new defined Yang data model shall be:

* multi-layer-topology.yang, which shall augment the current
network-topology.yang to include references to underlying topologies
* multi-technology-topology.yang, which shall augment the current
network-topology.yang to include the multi-technology information inside
node, termination-point, link related attributes

The set of involved data storages shall be:

* A configured network-topology storage where the Operator specifies the
topologies that intend to include inside the multi-layer topology. That
will be based on current network-topology Yang model and will take
advantage of the underlay-topology data node
* An operative network-topology storage augmented as based on proposed
Yang data model, which will be populated based on advertised nodes,
termination points, links and forwarding adjacencies. Forwarding
adjacencies will be correlated to underlying services. Inter-technology
information will augment the nodes, termination-points, links attributes
information.

