This page holds information on the candidates and voting process for the
2015 Silver Member Representative to the OpenDaylight Board of
Directors. Your nominees are (In Alphabetical Order):

[[marc-cohn---clearpath-networks]]
== Marc Cohn - ClearPath Networks

image: MarcCohn2015.png [ MarcCohn2015.png ,title=" MarcCohn2015.png "]

[[bio]]
=== Bio

Marc Cohn is the Senior Vice President of Marketing for ClearPath
Networks based in San Jose. +
 Marc has been a major contributor to the Software Defined Networking
(SDN) community, as a senior leader of the Open Networking Foundation
(ONF), where he is the Market Area Director, and a member of the ONF
Technical and Executive Councils. He is also the sole Silver Member
representative for the OpenDaylight Board of Directors. +
 Marc participates on the ETSI Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV)
ISG where he advises the senior leadership on PR and outbound messaging.
He is the editor of the ETSI NFV leadership Blog, and the NFV Insider
series on SDxCentral, one of the most popular Blogs on NFV. +
 Marc also speaks extensively on SDN and NFV, and has organized
successful SDN tutorials and workshops for major SDN and NFV events,
including the Open Networking Summit, Layer123 SDN & OpenFlow World
Congress, NFV & SDN Summit, among others. +
 Prior to joining ClearPath Networks, Marc was a major contributor to
Ciena’s SDN initiatives, and formerly held senior marketing and product
management roles with IP Infusion, Amdocs, Lucent Technologies, and
Alidian Networks. Marc earned a MS EE degree from the University of
Southern California where he was a Hughes Fellow, a BS EE degree in
Electrical Engineering and was the first Computer Engineering graduate
from the University of Missouri. +

[[statement-of-interest]]
=== Statement Of Interest

Over the past year, I have served the OpenDaylight Silver members as
their sole representative on the board of directors. I am seeking
re-election for the 2015-17 term to continue the mission, so together we
can propel OpenDaylight to the next level. On the Board, I have been a
strong advocate for the Silver Members, focusing on issues that address
our collective interests:

* Prioritizing stability and robustness. After meeting with you, it was
clear that many are concerned about the deployment-readiness of
OpenDaylight for a range of applications. As a result, I participated in
the so-called S3P initiative (Stability, Scalability, Security, and
Performance), to elevate the priority for stability and robustness for
future releases. I also contributed direct feedback summarizing Ciena’s
experiences and technical feedback from the Multilayer WAN Controller
development, which adopted OpenDaylight for Transport SDN.
* Validate end-user use cases and priorities. Another general concern
you expressed, is how well OpenDaylight addresses network operator use
cases and needs. As a result, I joined the End-User Executive Committee
on the Board (from its inception), to strive for end-user validation,
leading to the formation of the End User Advisory Group. Participants
include: AT&T, CableLabs,, Comcast, Google, Microsoft among others.
* Leveling the Playing Field- As a strong industry proponent for
openness, I have promoted the OpenDaylight approach for inclusiveness,
multi-vendor support, contributor diversity, and vendor-neutrality. I
continue to evangelize and promoted OpenDaylight with industry groups,
standards organizations, and open source projects. An example is the
close collaboration on the Northbound Interface and Intent activities
with the Open Networking Foundation (ONF), where I hold a senior
leadership role, as well as the ETSI NFV ISG where I serve as an
advisor.
* Strong Communications- In addition to sharing periodic updates on
OpenDaylight progress, I have encouraged Silver Members to influence the
Board of Directors through your feedback and recommendations.

For the year ahead, I intend to:

* Maintain strong support for the Silver Members, with particular
attentiveness to the concerns of our smaller members with limited
resources
* Continue to promote the initiatives established over the past 12
months to encourage adoption, and position OpenDaylight as THE
industry’s leading open source SDN controller framework
* Encourage Silver Member feedback on OpenDaylight,, and channel the
inputs directly into the Board

Thank you for the opportunity to ensure proactive and effective
representation in the interests of all Silver-level members.

[[rakesh-puri---comcast]]
== Rakesh Puri - Comcast

image: RakeshPuri2015.png [ RakeshPuri2015.png ,title=" RakeshPuri2015.png "]

[[bio-1]]
=== Bio

Having worked at carriers all my working life with such companies as
Comcast, T-Systems/DT, Teleglobe/Bell Canada, Cable and wireless, I see
very exciting times in telecommunications industry with the advent of
SDN/NFV paired with opensource efforts of many working teams. I look
forward to actively promote and contribute to the ecosystem. +
 At Comcast I am responsible for SDN and NFV development in Comcast for
the Comcast network. Comcast has a large elastic cloud network today
that supports various applications, and is completely opensource
openstack supported. We are in the process of leveraging various SDN and
NFV technology to virtualize the networking infrastructure. We are
actively using and developing Proof of Concepts for Opendaylight as a
SDN controller with LISP, Netconf, Openflow, BGP/PCEP stack. In the past
I was involved in developing SDN/NFV at Deutsche Telekom DT Terastream
project. +

[[statement-of-interest-1]]
=== Statement of Interest

My primary interest is to enhance the open source capabilities for
networking at Comcast and industry in general. We are increasing
participation in Openstack, Opendaylight, Open MANO, ETSI NFV, and
OPNFV.
