[cols="^",]
|=======================================================================
|*Virtualization Contents*

|link:Release/Hydrogen/Virtualization/Installation_Guide[Virt.
Install] +
link:Release/Hydrogen/Virtualization/User_Guide[Virt. User Guide] +
link:Release/Hydrogen/Virtualization/Release_Notes[Virt. Release
Notes] +
link:Release/Hydrogen/Developer Guide[Developer Guide] +
link:Release/Hydrogen[Hydrogen Main] +
|=======================================================================

[[overview-and-architecture]]
== Overview and Architecture

The Virtualization edition of OpenDaylight is geared towards data
centers. It includes the OVSDB protocol southbound and the Affinity
Service, VTN, DOVE, and the OpenStack Service. The following diagram
shows OpenDaylight Base Edition architecture in details: +
 image:Virt_edition.png[Virt_edition.png,title="fig:Virt_edition.png"]

[[installation]]
== Installation

The installation instructions for the Virtualization edition can be
found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Release/Hydrogen/Virtualization/Installation_Guide[here]

[[configuration]]
== Configuration

To configure OpenDaylight Virtualization edition using the OpenFlow 1.3
plugin, start Opendaylight Controller with the _-of13_ option. If you do
not use the option, the controller will use the OpenFlow 1.0 version.

* To start mininet for the OpenFlow 1.3 simulation, use the following
command: _mininet> sudo mn --controller=remote,ip=a.b.c.d --topo tree,2
--switch ovsk,protocols=OpenFlow13_

* To start mininet for the OpenFlow 1.0 simulation, use the following
command: _mininet> sudo mn --controller=remote,ip=10.125.136.52 --topo
tree,2_

[[web-graphical-interface]]
== Web / Graphical Interface

The graphical user interface is the same as the one for
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Release/Hydrogen/Base/User_Guide#Web_.2F_Graphical_Interface[Base
edition].

[[release-notes]]
== Release Notes

The release note for the Virtualization Edition can be found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Release/Hydrogen/Virtualization/Release_Notes[here].

[[ovsdb]]
== OVSDB

[[overview-and-architecture-1]]
=== Overview and Architecture

* OVSDB Integration is a bundle for OpenDaylight that will implement the
Open vSwitch Database management protocol, allowing southbound
configuration of vSwitches. It is a critical protocol for Network
Virtualization with Open vSwitch forwarding elements.
* OVSDB neutron bundle in Virtualization edition supports Network
Virtualization using VXLAN & GRE tunnel for Openstack and Cloudstack
deployments

The below diagram shows the OVSDB architecture for Neutron: +
image:OVSDB-Neutron.png[OVSDB-Neutron.png,title="fig:OVSDB-Neutron.png"] +

* Feature list and other Project documentation can be found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/OVSDB:Release_Review[here]
* The Design of the project can be found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/OVSDB_Integration:Design[here].

[[tutorial-how-to]]
=== Tutorial / How-To

Introduction and tutorial for the project can be found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/OVSDB_Integration:Mininet_OVSDB_Tutorial[here].

[[help]]
=== Help

* Sign up for
https://lists.opendaylight.org/mailman/listinfo/ovsdb-dev[ovsdb-dev]
mailing list.
* Join us in #opendaylight-ovsdb channel in freenode.net
* Visit us @ https://plus.google.com/u/0/+opendaylightovsdb/

[[virtual-tenant-network-vtn]]
== Virtual Tenant Network (VTN)

OpenDaylight Virtual Tenant Network (VTN) is an application that
provides multi-tenant virtual network on an SDN controller.

The below diagram shows the VTN architecture: +
image:VTN_APPLICATION_ARCHITECTURE.png[|Architecture
diagram,title="fig:|Architecture diagram"] +
 The User Guide of VTN can be found
link:Release/Hydrogen/VTN/User_Guide[here]:

* link:Release/Hydrogen/VTN/User_Guide[VTN User Guide]

[[affinity]]
== Affinity

[[overview-and-architecture-2]]
=== Overview and Architecture

* The Affinity service provides an API to allow controller and
higher-level applications to create and share an abstract, topology and
implementation independent description of the infrastructure needs,
preferences and behaviors of workloads that use the network to "talk" to
one another.

* The detailed description of the project can be found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Project_Proposals:Affinity_Metadata_Service[here].

[[programmatic-interfaces]]
=== Programmatic Interfaces

Affinity API and implementation in OpenDaylight can be found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/File:Opendaylight_affinity_API.pdf[here].
Additional information can be found
link:Release/Hydrogen/Affinity/Developer_Guide[in the Affinity Developer
Guide. ].

[[help-1]]
=== Help

Sign up for
https://lists.opendaylight.org/mailman/listinfo/affinity-dev[affinity-dev]
mailing list.

[[opendove]]
== OpenDOVE

[[overview-and-architecture-3]]
=== Overview and Architecture

* DOVE (distributed overlay virtual Ethernet) is a network
virtualization platform that provides isolated multi-tenant networks on
any IP network in a virtualized data center. DOVE provides each tenant
with a virtual network abstraction providing layer-2 or layer-3
connectivity and the ability to control communication using access
control policies. Address dissemination and policy enforcement in DOVE
is provided by a clustered directory service. It also includes a gateway
function to enable virtual machines on a virtual network to communicate
with hosts outside the virtual network domain.

* Users interact with Open DOVE to create and manage virtual networks
through the Open DOVE Management Console (DMC) which provides a REST API
for programmatic virtual network management and a basic graphical UI.
The DMC is also used to configure the Open DOVE Gateway to configure
connectivity to external, non-virtualized networks.

* The Open DOVE Connectivity Server (DCS) supplies address and policy
information to individual Open DOVE vswitches which implement virtual
networks by encapsulating tenant traffic in overlays that span
virtualized hosts in the data center. The DCS also includes support for
high-availability and scale-out deployments through a lightweight
clustering protocol between replicated DCS instances. The Open DOVE
vswitches serve as policy enforcement points for traffic entering
virtual networks. Open DOVE uses the VxLAN encapsulation format but
implements a scalable control plane that does not require the use of IP
multicast in the data center.

* The DOVE technology was originally developed by IBM Research and has
also been included in commercial products.

* The below diagram shows an overall DOVE architecture:

 +
image:Opendove-arch.png[Opendove-arch.png,title="fig:Opendove-arch.png"] +

* The Hydrogen release review of the project can be found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Open_DOVE:Hydrogen_Release_Review[here].

[[installation-guide]]
=== Installation Guide

The installation instructions for the project can be found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Open_Dove:Installation[here].

[[tutorial-how-to-1]]
=== Tutorial / How-To

Step by step tutorial for this project, including how to do zero day
tasks, configuring a basic overlay, and externalizing the basic overlay,
can be found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Open_Dove:How_To_Use[here].

[[programmatic-interfaces-link]]
=== Programmatic Interface(s) (link)

* OpenDOVE Northbound and Southbound APIs can be found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Open_DOVE:API[here].

* OpenDOVE developer guide can be found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Open_DOVE:Developer_Pages[here].

[[help-2]]
=== Help

Sign up for
https://lists.opendaylight.org/mailman/listinfo/opendove-dev[opendove-dev]
mailing list.

[[defense4all]]
== Defense4All

[[overview-and-architecture-4]]
=== Overview and Architecture

* Defense4All is an SDN application for detecting and mitigating DDoS
attacks.

* The below diagram shows Defense4All overall architecture:

 +
image:D4A_in_odl.jpg[D4A_in_odl.jpg,title="fig:D4A_in_odl.jpg"] +

* An overview of the project can be found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Defense4All:User_Guide[here].

[[installation-guide-link]]
=== Installation Guide (link)

The installation instructions for the project can be found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Defense4All:Installation_Guide[here].

[[installation-troubleshooting-link]]
=== Installation Troubleshooting (link)

The installation troubleshooting of the project can be found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Defense4All:Installation_Troubleshooting[here].

[[configuration-1]]
=== Configuration

The information for configuration of the project can be found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Defense4All:Configuration[here].

[[tutorial-how-to-2]]
=== Tutorial / How-To

Introduction and tutorial for the project can be found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Defense4All:Tutorial[here].

[[programmatic-interfaces-link-1]]
=== Programmatic Interface(s) (link)

Defense4All API can be found
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Defense4All:REST[here].

[[help-3]]
=== Help

Sign up for
https://lists.opendaylight.org/mailman/listinfo/defense4all-dev[defense4all-dev]
mailing list.

Return to the link:Release/Hydrogen[Hydrogen Release landing page].
