[cols=",,,,,,,,,,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Artifact ID |Component |Description |Design |Javadoc |Howto |Experts
|Users |Reviewers |Maturity |Bugzilla
|netconf-api +
 netconf-impl +
 netconf-ssh +
 netconf-util +
 netconf-netty-util |netconf-server |Implementation of
generic(extensible) netconf server over tcp/ssh. Handles the general
communication over network and forwards the rpcs to its extensions that
implement specific netconf rpc handles (e.g. get-config). | | | |Maros
Marsalek (mmarsale@cisco.com), Tomas Olvecky (tolvecky@cisco.com) | | |
|

|netconf-mapping-api +
 config-netconf-connector |netconf-to-config-mapping |Api definition for
netconf server extension with base implementation that transforms the
netconf rpcs to java calls for config-subsystem (config-subsystem
netconf extension). | | | |Maros Marsalek (mmarsale@cisco.com), Tomas
Olvecky (tolvecky@cisco.com) | | | |

|netconf-client |netconf-client |Netconf client basic implementation.
Simple netconf client that supports netconf communication with remote
netconf devices using xml format. | | | |Maros Marsalek
(mmarsale@cisco.com), Tomas Olvecky (tolvecky@cisco.com) | | | |

|ietf-netconf-monitoring +
 ietf-netconf-monitoring-extension +
 netconf-monitoring |netconf-monitoring |Netconf-monitoring yang schemas
with implementation of a netconf server extension that handles the
netconf-monitoring related handlers (e.g. adding netconf-state to get
rpc) | | | |Maros Marsalek (mmarsale@cisco.com), Tomas Olvecky
(tolvecky@cisco.com) | | | |

|config-persister-impl |config-persister-impl |Extensible implementation
of config persister that persists the configuration in form of xml(easy
to inject to edit-config rpc) and loads the initial configuration from
the persisted files. Configuration is stored after every successful
commit rpc. | | | |Maros Marsalek (mmarsale@cisco.com), Tomas Olvecky
(tolvecky@cisco.com) | | | |

|netconf-cli |netconf-cli |Prototype of a netconf cli. | | | |Maros
Marsalek (mmarsale@cisco.com), Jozef Gloncak (jgloncak@cisco.com) | | |
|
|=======================================================================

