[[netconf-subsystem]]
= Netconf subsystem

This page contains documented design for the netconf subsystem. +
image:Component_Netconf_All.png [ center | Component diagram for Netconf
subsystem,title="fig: center | Component diagram for Netconf subsystem"]

[[server]]
== Server

Netconf server was designed as an extensible generic netconf server
using http://netty.io/[Netty] for async IO. The core is implemented in
*netconf-impl* module with 2 extensions: *config-netconf-connector*
providing RPC handles for config subsystem and *netconf-monitoring*
providing a small set of support handles regarding
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6022[ietf-netconf-monitoring]. On top of
*netconf-impl*, there are 2 interfaces for outside world: *netconf-tcp*
providing a pure TCP netconf server endpoint and *netconf-ssh* providing
SSH netconf server endpoint.

[[netconf-extensions]]
=== Netconf extensions

Netconf server is just a generic, dynamic handler that delegates rpc
execution to a collection of specific handlers provided by extensions
like *config-netconf-connector*. Arbitrary amount of these extensions
can be supplied for the netconf server. The discovery mechanism for such
extensions is following:

1.  Extension registers an instance of _NetconfOperationServiceFactory_
into OSGi service registry
2.  Netconf server listens on new registrations and retrieves every
instance
3.  Netconf server retrieves a list of capabilities and a list of
operation handlers from that instance
4.  Capabilities are added to server hello (those with schema are also
added to netconf-monitoring#get-schema operation handler in
netconf-monitoring)
5.  Operations are added to the generic operation handler as delegates

Note: The capabilities and handlers are retrieved at the time a new
netconf connection is established, so even though the server is
dynamic(extensions can appear at any time), it seems static from the
netconf user point of view.

[[netconf-interfaces]]
=== Netconf interfaces

Netconf server binds itself just to a local address (local address is
not accessible from the outside of a VM) and allows additional
interfaces (accessible from the outside) to be provided on top of it.

[[uml-component-diagram]]
=== UML Component diagram

image:Component_Netconf_Server.png[Netconf server
components,title="Netconf server components"]

[[util]]
== Util

There are two modules that contain utility classes: *netconf-util* and
*netconf-netty-util*.

[[netconf-util]]
=== Netconf-util

Contains utilities for:

* Xml handling
* Abstract Netconf operation handlers implementation
* Netconf message utilities

[[netconf-netty-util]]
=== Netconf-netty-util

Contains netty channel handler implementations for:

* Encoders/Decoders
* Aggregators/Chunkers
* EXI handlers
* SSH handlers

[[netconf-to-config-mapping]]
== Netconf to config mapping

*Config-netconf-connector* is an extension for the netconf server and
provides handlers for editing and reading the data in config subsystem.
It translates the netconf rpcs into java calls on config-subsystem. +
 The connector connects to config subsystem using *JMX* interface, where
it looks for _ConfigRegistry_ and uses it to edit the current state of
configured modules.

[[mapping]]
=== Mapping

Since we are using JMX, there needs to be a mapping performed between
XML and JMX open type objects. *Config-netconf-connector* implements
custom mapping between these types using parsed _SchemaContext_ that is
available in the controller.

[[uml-component-diagram-1]]
=== UML Component Diagram

image:Component_Config_Netconf_Connector.png[Config Netconf Connector
components,title="Config Netconf Connector components"]

[[auth]]
== Auth

The default netconf transport protocol is SSH using username/password
authentication. The authentication process is extracted from the netconf
SSH server into a plugin that provides authentication.

[[authentication-api]]
=== Authentication API

Authentication service API definition is located in *netconf-auth*
bundle. This bundle contains only one interface called _AuthProvider_.

[[netconf-ssh-server-cooperation]]
=== Netconf SSH server cooperation

Netconf SSH server requires an implementation of _AuthProvider_ to be
able to authenticate its users. There is no direct dependency on any
auth implementation from SSH server. The server picks up the
implementation from OSGi service registry after its started. In case
there is no implementation available, the server will reject every user.
In case there are multiple implementations registered, server will
choose just one of them and the choice depends on an attribute
associated with every registered implementation called:
*org.opendaylight.controller.netconf.auth.AuthConstants.SERVICE_PREFERENCE_KEY*.
This attribute contains a numerical value and the higher the value, the
higher the preference for netconf server to pick that implementation.

[[authentication-implementations]]
=== Authentication Implementations

Currently there are 2 implementations for netconf authentication.

[[usermanager]]
==== Usermanager

*Deprecated* implementation using authentication mechanism provided by
OpenDaylight_Controller:AD-SAL[AD-SAL] called _UserManager_. This
implementation requires AD-SAL infrastructure in order to provide
authentication for netconf. This implementation is deprecated in favor
of AAA implementation. Located in bundle *netconf-usermanager* and part
of netconf subsystem in controller project.

[[aaa-project]]
==== AAA project

Current implementation using authentication mechanism provided by the
AAA:Main[AAA project]. Located in bundle *aaa-authn-odl-plugin* and part
of AAA project.

[[uml-component-diagram-2]]
=== Uml Component Diagram

image:Component Netconf Authentication.png[Netconf Auth
components,title="Netconf Auth components"]

[[monitoring]]
== Monitoring

Netconf-monitoring is an extension for the netconf server and provides
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6022[ietf-netconf-monitoring] capability
as well as handlers for get-schema(this handler is still located in
*netconf-impl* module, needs to be moved) and get operation.

Note: Get operation handler is also provided by
config-netconf-connector, but netconf server allows multiple operations
to take part in forming of the response. Get from netconf monitoring
just adds the netconf-state subtree to the response.

[[netconf-monitoring-current-netconf-server-state-retrieval]]
=== Netconf monitoring current netconf server state retrieval

*Netconf-monitoring* module provides information about current state of
the netconf server e.g. sessions. However these information needs to be
retrieved first from the netconf server. Netconf server exposes such
information with a service named NetconfMonitoringService. This service
is registered into OSGi service registry and located by the netconf
monitoring when its started.

[[ietf-netconf-monitoring]]
=== Ietf netconf monitoring

Modules *ietf-netconf-monitoring* and
*ietf-netconf-monitoring-extension* contain yang modules for
ietf-netconf-monitoring with a small extension and generated java
classes.

[[uml-component-diagram-3]]
=== UML Component Diagram

image:Component Netconf Monitoring.png[Netconf Monitoring
components,title="Netconf Monitoring components"]

[[config-persister-impl]]
== Config persister impl

Config persister is component responsible for loading initial
configuration and persisting changed configuration in the controller.
Detailed information about persister implementation can be found at
OpenDaylight_Controller:Config:Configuration:Initial[Initial config
documentation]. +
 Only the implementation *config-persister-impl* is part of
netconf-subsystem. The rest of the components is located in
config-subsystem. The reason is that config-persister-impl hooks to
netconf for receiving notifications about changed config.

[[uml-component-diagram-4]]
=== UML Component Diagram

image:Component_Config_Persister_Impl.png[Config persister
components,title="Config persister components"]

[[cli]]
== Cli

Cli is a prototype for netconf cli using existing code from
netconf-client as well as sal-netconf-connector. Its development is on
hold.

[[testtool]]
== Testtool

The testtool is just a small application that produces executable jar
file. It is built using existing code for netconf-server.
