[[introduction]]
= Introduction

This page serves as an introduction to using
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Management_information_base[MIBs] in
conjunction with the SNMP Plugin for Opendaylight.

The SNMP protocol uses MIB definitions as a standardized way to interact
with a network device. In the SNMP Plugin for Opendaylight, MIBs can
also be used as an abstraction from the underlying SNMP messages
required to interact with a node in the network. This helps to reduce
code duplication, as the core logic for populating MIB tables can be
centralized within the SNMP Plugin.

*Note:* A patch for the code in this tutorial can be found
https://git.opendaylight.org/gerrit/15433[here]. I encourage you to
follow along with the tutorial, and refer to the code examples if you
have any questions.

[[adding-a-mib]]
= Adding a MIB

The SNMP Plugin can use custom defined MIBs to return data to your
plugin. This is helpful as the SNMP Plugin can use the MIB definition to
dynamically determine the data type of the object it's retrieving, and
return you the correct type. MIBs aren't required to be pre-compiled
with the SNMP plugin before using them; the SNMP Plugin is equipped to
dynamically populate MIBs at runtime.

In this tutorial we'll walk through creating a plugin using a new MIB,
and retrieving a MIB table from a network device using the SNMP Plugin.

[[gather-mib-files]]
=== Gather MIB files

The first step in adding a new MIB is to get the .my and the .oid files
corresponding to the MIB in question. The Cisco SNMP Object Navigator is
a good place to do so.

In this example I will be adding the DOCS-IF-MIB, which is the SNMP
object for DOCSIS Interfaces on cable devices. If you don't have access
to a device which supports the DOCS-IF-MIB, I encourage you to try this
tutorial with a different MIB table, and use the DOCS-IF-MIB
implementation as a reference. We need both
ftp://ftp.cisco.com/pub/mibs/v2/DOCS-IF-MIB.my[DOCS-IF-MIB.my] and
ftp://ftp.cisco.com/pub/mibs/oid/DOCS-IF-MIB.oid[DOCS-IF-MIB.oid]. The
DOCS-IF-MIB.my file is used to determine the object types and hierarchy
of the model, and the DOCS-IF-MIB.oid is used to determine the Object
Identifier for each table in the MIB.

[[convert-mib-to-yang]]
=== Convert MIB to YANG

The OID file can be left as-is and placed in the /src/main/oid/
directory of your project. The MIB file needs to be converted into a
YANG model before it can be used with the SNMP Plugin (we look to
automate this in the future). MIBs are converted into YANG models using
a tool called "smidump". A web-interface
http://www.ibr.cs.tu-bs.de/projects/libsmi/tools/[here] is the easiest
way to access it.

The settings should look like:

image:SMI-dump example.png[SMI-dump example.png,title="SMI-dump example.png"]

If the MIB in question corresponds to an IETF standard, we can use the
standardized MIB instead of uploading our own. This will generate a
.yang file for you, which you should place in the /src/main/yang folder
of your project.

Now's a good time to make sure the YANG model compiles correctly into
Java code, and correct any mistakes from smidump. This is not always
required, and is usually nothing more than updating import versions on
dependencies. For this, we use YANG Tools:Main[YANG Tools]. I won't go
over the steps required for this part, as many other tutorials already
exist. Check out the Ping and
OpenDaylight_Controller:MD-SAL:Toaster_Tutorial if you need assistance.
In my case I needed to add a revision date to the `ietf-yang-types`
import on the DOCS-IF-MIB model.

Before: +
` 
  import ietf-yang-types {
    prefix "yang"; 
  } 
`

After: `
  import ietf-yang-types {
    prefix "yang";
    revision-date "2010-09-24";
  }
`

You may find that the MIB you're using is dependent on other MIB types.
In this case simply repeat the MIB to YANG steps for the dependent MIBs,
and the YANG Tools plugin should compile. You will find that the SNMP
Plugin contains many of the base MIB types, which will resolve many of
the dependencies for you.

[[add-yang-oid-plugin]]
=== Add YANG-OID Plugin

In the pom.xml file for your project, add the `yang-oid-plugin` to the
build process as shown below. This plugin is responsible for adding the
OID information (from the .oid file in the previous step) to each table
of the MIB.

`
            <plugin>
                <groupId>org.opendaylight.snmp</groupId>
                <artifactId>yang-oid-plugin</artifactId>
                <version>1.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
                <executions>
                    <execution>
                        <phase>generate-sources</phase>
                        <goals>
                            <goal>oid</goal>
                        </goals>
                        <configuration>
                            <yangDirectory>target/generated-sources/sal</yangDirectory>
                            <oidDirectory>src/main/oid</oidDirectory>
                        </configuration>
                    </execution>
                </executions>
            </plugin>
`

[[using-mibs]]
= Using MIBs

Now we're ready to start using the DOCS-IF MIB in Java code. For this
example, we will create a simple RPC method to return a list of
DOCS-IF-MIB objects from our network element (This corresponds to a list
of configured cable modems on the router). In other scenarios, using
MIBs may be beneficial for fetching data from nodes in the network, such
as the list of configured interfaces on the node (IF-MIB), or any other
properties. Using the MIB definition abstracts the generic SNMP
framework from each individual plugin, thus reducing all of the
boilerplate code required to make SNMP requests.

[[adding-rpc-methods]]
=== Adding RPC Methods

For this example we'll be using 1 rpc method to return our data:
get-docs-if-mib. Create a new yang file with the following:

`
    rpc get-docs-if-mib {
            input {
                leaf ip-address {
                    type inet:ipv4-address;
                }
            }
            output {
                container tutorialObjects {
                    uses docs:docsIfCmtsObjectsGroup;
                }
            }
        }
`

*Note:* for the sake of this tutorial, I've modified the previously
generated yang-model to define the MIB using groupings in conjunction
with the containers. This allows me to use the
`uses docs:docsIfCmtsObjectsGroup;` line instead of having to re-define
the output container.

[[write-the-code]]
=== Write the Code

Here's the bulk of the code required to get the RPC method to work.

`
   private DocsIfCmtsObjects getDocsIfCmtsObjects(Ipv4Address ipv4Address) {
        SNMPImpl snmp = (SNMPImpl) snmpService;
  
        DocsIfCmtsObjectsBuilder docsIfCmtsObjectsBuilder = new DocsIfCmtsObjectsBuilder();
        Collection<DocsIfCmtsCmStatusEntryBuilder> docsIfCmtsCmStatusEntryBuilders = snmp.populateMibTable(ipv4Address, DocsIfCmtsCmStatusEntryBuilder.class);
  
        ArrayList<DocsIfCmtsCmStatusEntry> docsIfCmtsCmStatusEntries = new ArrayList<>();
        for (DocsIfCmtsCmStatusEntryBuilder cmtsCmStatusEntryBuilder : docsIfCmtsCmStatusEntryBuilders) {
            docsIfCmtsCmStatusEntries.add(cmtsCmStatusEntryBuilder.build());
        }
        docsIfCmtsObjectsBuilder.setDocsIfCmtsCmStatusEntry(docsIfCmtsCmStatusEntries);
        DocsIfCmtsObjects docsIfCmtsObjects = docsIfCmtsObjectsBuilder.build();
        return docsIfCmtsObjects;
    }

    @Override
    public Future<RpcResult<GetDocsIfMibOutput>> getDocsIfMib(GetDocsIfMibInput input) {
  
        GetDocsIfMibOutputBuilder getDocsIfMibOutputBuilder = new GetDocsIfMibOutputBuilder();
        TutorialObjectsBuilder tutorialObjectsBuilder = new TutorialObjectsBuilder(getDocsIfCmtsObjects(input.getIpAddress()));
        getDocsIfMibOutputBuilder.setTutorialObjects(tutorialObjectsBuilder.build());
  
        RpcResultBuilder<GetDocsIfMibOutput> rpcResultBuilder = RpcResultBuilder.success(getDocsIfMibOutputBuilder.build());
        return Futures.immediateFuture(rpcResultBuilder.build());
    }
`

The key line here is
` docsIfCmtsCmStatusEntryBuilders = snmp.populateMibTable(ipv4Address, DocsIfCmtsCmStatusEntryBuilder.class); `
This is the call to the SNMP Plugin to take the DocsIfCmtsCmStatusEntry
table (shown
http://tools.cisco.com/Support/SNMP/do/BrowseOID.do?local=en&translate=Translate&objectInput=1.3.6.1.2.1.10.127.1.3.3.1[here]
) and aggregate the data across all the tables into a Collection of MIB
objects.

[[running-the-code]]
=== Running the Code

After starting up opendaylight, install the `odl-restconf-all` and
`odl-snmp-plugin` features

`
  opendaylight-user@root>feature:repo-add mvn:org.opendaylight.snmp/features-snmp/1.0-SNAPSHOT/xml/features
  Adding feature url mvn:org.opendaylight.snmp/features-snmp/1.0-SNAPSHOT/xml/features
  opendaylight-user@root>feature:install odl-snmp-plugin
  opendaylight-user@root>feature:install odl-restconf-all
`

This installs the base SNMP Plugin and provides basic REST API support.
Next we install the bundle we created in this project.

`
  opendaylight-user@root>bundle:install    file://~/.m2/repository/org/opendaylight/snmp/mibs-tutorial/1.0-SNAPSHOT/mibs-tutorial-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar
`

Now we're able to invoke the RPC method we created earlier using the
REST API. You should see something like this:

` 
  
  "tutorialObjects": {
                "docsIfCmtsCmStatusEntry": [
                    {
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusIndex": 2523149,
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusMacAddress": "00:15:d1:76:65:01",
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusIpAddress": "80.30.0.188",
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusDownChannelIfIndex": 2721,
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusUpChannelIfIndex": 16962,
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusRxPower": 5,
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusTimingOffset": 1303,
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusEqualizationData": "",
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusValue": "registrationComplete",
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusUnerroreds": 103415,
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusCorrecteds": 0,
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusUncorrectables": 0,
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusSignalNoise": 361,
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusMicroreflections": 0,
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusExtUnerroreds": 103415,
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusExtCorrecteds": 0,
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusExtUncorrectables": 0,
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusModulationType": "atdma",
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusInetAddressType": "ipv4",
                        "docsIfCmtsCmStatusValueLastUpdate": 114067182
                    },
`

Here we fetched a the complete list of cable modems from the router,
along with all of its data. Each application can choose to use any or
all of the data obtained to complete whatever task is required, without
having to go through the low-level SNMP messages required to populate
each table.
