[cols="^",]
|=======================================================================
|*SAL Guide Contents*

|OpenDaylight Controller:Model-Driven Controller Service Abstraction Layer[Model-Driven
Controller SAL] +
OpenDaylight Controller:SAL Infrastructure[SAL:Infrastructure and
Interfaces] +
OpenDaylight Controller: SAL Architecture Overview[SAL:Architecture
Overview] +
OpenDaylight Controller:YANG Schema and Model[SAL:YANG Schema] +
OpenDaylight Controller:Binding-Independent Data Format[SAL:BI Data
Format] +
OpenDaylight Controller:Binding-Independent Components[SAL:BI
Components] +
OpenDaylight Controller:Binding-Aware SAL[SAL:Binding-Aware SAL] +
OpenDaylight Controller:Binding Model[SAL:Binding Model] +
OpenDaylight Controller:Binding Aware Components[SAL:BA Components] +
OpenDaylight Controller:Example Workflows[SAL:Example Workflows and
Diagrams] +
OpenDaylight Controller:Programmer Guide[Programmer Guide Top Level] +
OpenDaylight Controller:Main[Top Level Contents]
|=======================================================================

[[binding-model-subsystems]]
== Binding Model Subsystems

The Binding Model is a specification that describes how a YANG schema
and the Binding-independent Data Format are translated into generated
bindings (statically-typed Java Interfaces, DTOs, builders and mappers).
The Binding Model has two subsystems:

* Consumer & Provider binding – A subset of the binding model which is
directly visible to Consumers and Providers; it uses binding at the
development (compile) time. This subset consists of Generated Java
Interfaces for:
** Data Transfer Objects
** DTO Builders
** RPC Interfaces
* Binding Infrastructure components – Infrastructure components are not
directly visible to the Consumers and Providers. They are responsible
for the implementation of the binding functionality and/or generated
Java interfaces. Infrastructure components are only available at runtime
and are typically dynamically generated. Binding Infrastructure
components are specific to the implementation of the Binding-Aware SAL
layer.

[[consumer-provider-binding]]
== Consumer & Provider Binding

The Consumer & Provider Binding is generated from YANG schema.

[[data-transfer-objects]]
=== Data Transfer Objects

Data Transfer Objects represent the instances of data nodes defined by
YANG Schema and are used to store and transfer data. Data Transfer
Objects are immutable and are represented as interfaces in generated
compile-time binding (the implementation is supplied in runtime by use
of the builders).

[[dto-builders]]
=== DTO Builders

DTO Builders are objects that create DTOs. The builders are represented
as interfaces in generated binding compile-time bindingsl The
implementation of builders can be obtained at runtime via Factory
methods provided by the Binding-Aware Broker and the Binding Generator.

[[rpc-interfaces]]
=== RPC Interfaces

RPC interfaces represent the programmatic API to invoking RPCs provided
by Providers. The RPC interfaces describe all the RPCs available in a
YANG module in the form of methods. The implementation of RPC interface
depends on type of component that uses the binding:

* Consumer – Proxy of an RPC interface is provided at runtime; the proxy
uses the Binding-Aware Broker functionality to invoke the right RPC
implementation.
* Provider – implementation of an RPC interface is provided by the
Provider. The Provider’s developer is responsible for creating the
implementation of the RPC interface and implementing the functionality
as described in the model. The generated RPC interface serves as a
contract / skeleton for the implementation. In order to expose the
implementation, this implementation must be registered in the
Binding-Aware Broker.

Category:OpenDaylight Controller[Category:OpenDaylight Controller]
