[[renderers-subgroup]]
== Renderers SubGroup

*Leader:*

* Keith Burns

*Members:*

* Mike Dvorkin
* Rob Adams
* Ryan Moats
* Dave Lenrow
* Sanjay Agrawal
* Stephen Wong
* Mickey Spiegel
* Prasad Vellanki
* Rob Adams
* Dave Tucker
* Bhushan Kanekar
* Thomas Graf

[[charterpurpose]]
== Charter/Purpose

Issue: policy constructs are rendered to different mechanisms. There’s
lots of common work to be done. We will start with one group, and we
will have one renderer per technology so we don’t have one monolithic
renderer for all technologies.

[[team-meeting]]
== Team Meeting

Weekly meeting Friday 9am. Meeting hangout:
https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/calendar/YWRhbXNAbm9pcm9uZXR3b3Jrcy5jb20.fqea6mq4n6t6j6it830lo39p3c?authuser=1

[[information-from-past-meetings]]
== Information From Past Meetings

*Fri June 27*

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/renderer/opendaylight-group-policy-renderer.2014-06-27-16.05.html[Minutes
in HTML]

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/renderer/opendaylight-group-policy-renderer.2014-06-27-16.05.txt[Minutes
in text]

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/renderer/opendaylight-group-policy-renderer.2014-06-27-16.05.log.html[Log
of Minutes in HTML]

*Minutes:*

Action items

alagalah to ensure that these minutes are linked to Renderer sub-group
page and ARCH page and in ARCH agenda alagalah to add whiteboard
usecases to ARCH agenda ...
[https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/datastore/opendaylight-group-policy-datastore.2014-05-05-14.01.html[Place
holder from DataStore May5 meeting]
