[[status-meeting]]
== Status Meeting

*Leader:*

* Mike Dvorkin

*Members:*

* Keith Burns
* Thomas Bachman
* Rob Adams
* Dan Conde
* Stephen Wong
* Ryan Moats
* Daljeet Singh
* Mickey Spiegel
* Dave Lenrow
* Liem Nguyen
* Uyen Chau
* Rex Pugh
* Chris Price
* Raghurama Bhat
* Allyn Romanow
* Jan Medved
* Rob Dolin
* Sanjay Agrawal
* Derick Winkworth
* Prasad Vellanki
* Hemanth Ravi

[[charterpurpose]]
== Charter/Purpose

General review of sub-groups, general business, project tracking.

[[team-meeting]]
== Team Meeting

*Time and Location:*

* 1pm Pacific, Thursdays.
* IRC: #opendaylight-group-policy
* Join and email
mailto:groupbasedpolicy-dev@lists.opendaylight.org[Group Policy Dev] for
a Calendar invite.
* Hangout:
https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/noironetworks.com/odl-gbp-status?authuser=1&hceid=ZHZvcmtpbkBub2lyb25ldHdvcmtzLmNvbQ.nf43n3np1b0kc48it41dsg4v2o

[[information-from-past-meetings]]
== Information From Past Meetings

*Thursday July 31*

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/gbp_status/opendaylight-group-policy-gbp_status.2014-07-31-20.01.html[Minutes
(HTML)]

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/gbp_status/opendaylight-group-policy-gbp_status.2014-07-31-20.01.txt[Minutes
(text)]

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/gbp_status/opendaylight-group-policy-gbp_status.2014-07-31-20.01.log.html[Log
(HTML)]

*Thursday July 17*

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/gbp_status/opendaylight-group-policy-gbp_status.2014-07-17-20.02.html[Minutes
(HTML)]

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/gbp_status/opendaylight-group-policy-gbp_status.2014-07-17-20.02.txt[Minutes
(text)]

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/gbp_status/opendaylight-group-policy-gbp_status.2014-07-17-20.02.log.html[Log
(HTML)]

*Thursday July 10*

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/gbp_status/opendaylight-group-policy-gbp_status.2014-07-10-20.00.html[Minutes
(HTML)]

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/gbp_status/opendaylight-group-policy-gbp_status.2014-07-10-20.00.txt[Minutes
(text)]

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/gbp_status/opendaylight-group-policy-gbp_status.2014-07-10-20.00.log.html[Log
(HTML)]

*Thursday July 3*

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/odl_gbp_status/opendaylight-group-policy-odl_gbp_status.2014-07-03-20.06.html[Minutes
(HTML)]

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/odl_gbp_status/opendaylight-group-policy-odl_gbp_status.2014-07-03-20.06.txt[Minutes
(text)]

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/odl_gbp_status/opendaylight-group-policy-odl_gbp_status.2014-07-03-20.06.log.html[Log
(HTML)]

*Thursday May 29*

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/policy_status/opendaylight-group-policy-policy_status.2014-05-29-20.08.html[Minutes]

*Thursday May 22*

https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/odl_gbp_status/opendaylight-group-policy-odl_gbp_status.2014-05-22-20.17.html[Minutes]

*Thursday May 15*

Agenda

* Action items

* ** regxboi to figure out how to do the + votes
** Q was raised "What happens when there is a -2?" Does the merge not
happen until it is removed, even if there is a +2? regXboi to validate
*** re: regXboi action item on gerrit review vote of -2... -2 blocks
merge until removed.
** Each developer/contributor to review tabs and self assign themselves
to a sub-project that they would like to work on
*** place e a question mark on column A if you are not sure which
subgroup you can work on, if you do know, place that in column a
** will people #info their names and ID into the IRC so we can set up
Trello accounts.
** readams says that the YANG model is not working, but also the
"Toaster" example doesn't work. jmedved says it should work, so asked
readams to email alias. jmedved to link archetype as well. Email alias
controller-dev@ and discuss@
** Keith to write up detailed 3-tier example with contracts, break that
down through the yang model, create JSON input

*Thu May8*

Agenda

* First commit/merge - Special thanks to Ryan and Rob!
** Corollary: Suggested commit process.
* Who is going to OpenStack summit and what are the implications to team
meetings next week?
* Plan of Record - Keith
** Trello accounts
** Review Ryan's comments: Regarding Renderer Commons: regXboi: Isn't
this just the datastore facing side? what more is there?
* YANG review - Rob Adams
* JSON generation from Use Case - Keith (due for ARCH/MODEL sub-group)
* Action Items:
** alagalah to follow on edwarnicke ODL plans

*
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/groupbasedpolicy_status/opendaylight-group-policy-groupbasedpolicy_status.2014-05-08-20.06.html[Minutes]

*Thu May1*

Agenda

* Outstanding Actions
** alagalah readams1 jmedved to meet Fri Apr25 after ARCH meeting for
90min to build Yang for Endpoint Reg and a subset of the UML Model with
potentially a follow up Tue Apr29 with jmedved and Tony
** Prior commitment to have Endpoint Reg strawman for Mon Apr28 may not
be feasible.
** alagalah will look at the different projects to figure out what has
the most reasonable northbound API
** alagalah will build a sophisticated and complete draft plan

* Who is contributing and what time can you devote?
* Who is missing from this list?
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Project_Proposals:Group_Based_Policy_Plugin#Resources_Committed_.28developers_committed_to_working.29[Resources]
* Review of release plan

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/gbp_status/opendaylight-group-policy-gbp_status.2014-05-01-19.59.html[Minutes]

https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BztNICcppsJKTXFwdDF2RVhsS1k/edit?usp=sharing[Mickey
Spiegel's Notes]

*Thursday Apr24*

Agenda

\1. Helium Release Plan:
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Simultaneous_Release:Helium_Release_Plan

\2. Actions from last week:

Repository/Endpoint:

* alagalah and readams1 to work on a date for date
* Target to have a skeleton structure by next week's Monday

Datastore: No actions but RegXBoi feels we have enough to start building
a Yang model from the UML Model (alagalah agrees)

Operational State

* alagalah and regxboi to discuss putting this meeting on hold until we
have something to operationalise in the Status meeting
* alagalah to confirm in Status meeting that charter is indeed
instrumentation and ensuring proper operational aspects are included in
subgroups

Renderer:

* Meeting on hold until readams/alagalah get a strawman prototype built.
Need to decide on what to render (Affinity seems interesting? Rather
than OF/OVSDB) and everything else is static.

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/group_policy_status/opendaylight-group-policy-group_policy_status.2014-04-24-19.56.html[Minutes]

*Thursday Apr17*

https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=e641698ea072445e88a9566edc145ec3[WebEx
recording Thu Apr17]

*Thursday Apr10*

http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/opendaylight-group-policy.2014-04-10-20.11.html[Minutes]

*Thursday Mar27*

Cancelled

*Thursday Mar20*

*
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/opendaylight-group-policy.2014-03-20-20.10.html[Minutes]

*Thursday Mar13*

*
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/opendaylight-group-policy.2014-03-20-20.10.html[Minutes]
**
https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/files/viewRecording?encryptData=1_F4493C447039038ED55E7540543C28D02DDC9E9E298F641E9D0A6A658DC1ADCD1BADF3CAB2161F349B81DE0693BEDEB5A6F6656E51E686356D4C69294C322564D000FFAB21E02FF4EE499D05BF9497B3_A572E556EF9D3A5FA3FB530C6B0DF731C7E5F907[Link
to Webex Recording]

*Thursday Mar6*

*
http://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-group-policy/2014/opendaylight-group-policy.2014-03-06-21.07.html[Minutes]

