[[meetings]]
== Meetings

*PLEASE NOTE:* Our meeting day is now on Wednesdays at 8AM Pacific time.

Please join us every week for this meeting. We meet using IRC on
Freenode at #opendaylight-docs and on WebEx using the following
connection information:

* Meeting URL:
https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=MEZ64MQAEG678HB95FQDDX9QER-9VIB&rnd=580672.24351
* Meeting Number: 195 651 551
* Host Key: 513345
* Call-in toll number (US/Canada): 1-650-479-3207
* Call-in toll-free number (US/Canada): 1-855-244-8681

[[agendas-and-minutes]]
== Agendas and Minutes

[[wednesday-52715-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 5/27/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees:* Colin, Casey, Moi, Manny +
*Meeting Minutes:*
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2015/docs/opendaylight-docs-docs.2015-05-27-15.01.html +

[[wednesday-51315-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 5/13/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees:* Colin, Shahida, Casey, Manny +
*Meeting Minutes:*
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2015/docs/opendaylight-docs-docs.2015-05-13-15.08.html +

[[wednesday-5615-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 5/6/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees:* Colin, Shahida, Manny +
*Meeting Minutes:*
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2015/docs/opendaylight-docs-docs.2015-05-06-15.00.html +

[[wednesday-42215-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 4/22/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees:* Colin, Shahida, Manny +
*Meeting Minutes:*
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2015/docs/opendaylight-docs-docs.2015-04-22-15.05.html +

[[wednesday-4115-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 4/1/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees:* Moi, Shahida, Manny +
 Items discussed:

* Manny reminded folks that M4 is coming up (4/16) and we should aim to
have drafts of our docs ready by then.
* We divvied up work on the Lithium doc updates:
** user guide and release notes—Manny
*** ODL overview
*** topic that segues to project-specific information
** getting started guide and developer guide—Divya, Moi, Shahida
*** connecting to Mininet
*** making RESTCONF calls
*** upgrading from the previous release
*** ODL security considerations
*** how to develop docs on top of ODL
*** REST/RESTCONF development
** Openstack/ODL deployment guide—Dave

[[wednesday-32515-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 3/25/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees:* Divya, Moi, Colin, Shahida, Manny +
*Meeting Minutes:*
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2015/docs/opendaylight-docs-docs.2015-03-25-15.08.html +
*Recording:*
https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/url/yTL_9mHgnRQrIJ9W0ktCcDTibBbh_NoolX0QkK6uOGy00000

[[wednesday-31815-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 3/18/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees:* Divya, Moi, Phil, Shahida, Manny +
*Recording:*
https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/url/Oz135pbQ3rANlgNtHKPIq3IypRr5zb5Ak6ZYVN-QS0q00000 +

[[wednesday-31115-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 3/11/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees:* Colin, Dave, Phil, Manny +
*Meeting Minutes:*
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2015/docs/opendaylight-docs-docs.2015-03-11-15.08.html

[[wednesday-3415-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 3/4/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees:* Colin, Dave, Divya, Moi, Shahida, Manny +
*Recording:*
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=6330160017e74eecbd73e55ad6380f35 +
*Meeting Minutes:*
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2015/docs/opendaylight-docs-docs.2015-03-04-16.13.html

[[wednesday-22515-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 2/25/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

Meeting was cancelled due to time conflicts.

[[wednesday-21815-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 2/18/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees:* Colin, Adam, Divya, Moi, Manny +
*Recording:*
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=4c8d969f744c4e3bab67dc826e0fd62a

Items discussed:

* Template review comments:
** Delete whitespace (mainly for formatting; won’t break anything if not
fixed)
** Genericize templates as much as possible
** Writers should provide screenshots when describing use cases
** Colin did a quick walkthrough of a file update/commit in Git
** Request for additional template feedback (which should be entered in
Git)
** Colin to restack templates so formatting/compilation is cleaner

[[wednesday-21115-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 2/11/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

Meeting was cancelled due to time conflicts.

[[wednesday-2415-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 2/4/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees:* Colin, Divya, Moi, Phil, Manny +
*Recording:*
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=6d9af436b2fe4740ac8c65b3525edfd3

Items discussed:

* We reviewed the Lithium release plan and suggested changes that needed
to be made before finalizing it.
* Instead of providing separate guides with quick start and security
information, we decided to provide this information in the installation
guide.
* We reviewed Colin's outline for a documentation process.

Action items:

* Manny: Ping Dave Neary about possibly providing content for
OpenStack/OpenDaylight deployment guide.
* Manny: Update release plan with team’s feedback.
* Manny: Continue work on documentation process and send out to team for
review.
* Manny: Work with George to figure out how/where to track documentation
status.
* Divya: Set up current templates as asciidocs.
* Colin: Set up base docs structure.
* Team: Review and provide feedback to Divya on templates.

[[wednesday-12815-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 1/28/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees:* Colin, Moi, Phil, Shahida, Manny +
*Recording:*
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=cc5e70da9a694752aff0d49b3cb71206

Items discussed:

* We prioritized our action items and specified the desired completion
dates for them.
* Discussed the creation of an OpenStack/OpenDaylight deployment guide.
It'd be nice to have, provided we have the necessary resources and
bandwidth.

Action items:

* Colin: Send out first stab at documentation process Lithium project
teams must follow.
* Manny: Incorporate high-priority action items into the doc release
plan.
* Manny: Update action item spreadsheet so it is easier to read.

[[wednesday-12115-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 1/21/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

Meeting was cancelled due to lack of attendees.

[[wednesday-11415-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 1/14/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees:* Divya, Mathieu, Moi, Phil, Shahida, Manny +
*Recording:*
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=c918d30f135347eab3938f0aa091b90d

Items discussed:

* Manny reminded the team to keep the action item spreadsheet updated
with the latest status for the items they signed up for.
* We reviewed the draft doc release plan Manny put together for the
Lithium release.
** Mathieu brought the need for OpenStack/OpenDaylight deployment guide.
** Phil recommended to explicitly list the doc deliverables that
correspond to the various milestones.
* Phil recommended reviewing project release plans to ensure that they
are providing the necessary docs.

Action items:

* Manny: Work with George to determine the doc contact for the various
projects.

[[wednesday-1715-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 1/7/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees:* Colin, Divya, Mathieu, Moi, Shahida, Manny +
*Recording:*
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=cef8db39a3e34992b56413653b6f056c

Items discussed:

* We reviewed the actions items the team came up with during the 12/3/14
doc group meeting.
* Mathieu covered the specifics of moving sdndocs code into the doc
repository.
* Colin discussed the need for the doc group to elect a project lead.

Action items:

* Manny: Draft a Lithium release plan and send the doc group's M1 status
to the release alias by the COB 1/8/15.
* Colin: Write the doc alias selecting a project lead/primary contact.
* Colin: Create a Google doc to track action items—can be accessed
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1yAsfKJitnKM82D8s-2aHtoUaFQszD23zFqKWA9fuKro/edit?usp=sharing[here].
* Colin: Write Phil and Mathieu about migrating the Apache licensed
sdndocs code into the docs repository.
* Core doc group: Update action item spreadsheet with items they would
like to work on.

[[wednesday-1217-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 12/17, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees:* Colin, Jhon, Manny, Moi, Shahida +
*Recording:*
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=49b2603dbf3245409a7acd9b044261c9[https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=49b2603dbf3245409a7acd9b044261c9]

* Making a Glossary
** Questions about the glossary:
*** What kinds of terms should go here?
**** What's too specific?
**** How do you deal with ambiguity?
*** Who should fill them out?
** There are two kinds of glossaries:
*** Industry-standard terms
*** Internal terms
**** Includes preferred vs. non-preferred terms for things
** How does somebody request to add a new term:
*** e-mail discuss list
*** e-mail documentation list?
** Guidelines for what should be in the glossary:
*** Definition should be somewhat time-invariant, e.g., not likely to
change over time
*** Definition should be somewhat space-invariant, e.g., it should not
change between projects
* _Action items around Glossary_
** e-mail list asking for contributions to glossary
** we probably need to reviewing periodically to clean it up
** we probably some kind of guidelines
* Award for best docs?
** Who should vote? The documentation team? Docs committers.
** Who should be eligible.
** Advertise it.
** Monetary award (ask LF) or just praise?

[[wednesday-1210-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 12/10, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees*: Manny, Sujatha, and Colin.

Colin gave a demo on how writers would use Gerrit and Git to manage doc
files in the ODL repository.

Location:

* WebEx recording:
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=38d9662328f74fc18a3d520c82c1a765
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

[[wednesday-123-2014-800-am-usa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 12/3, 2014, 8:00 AM (USA Pacific)

*Attendees:* Divya, Moi, Sujatha, Phil, Colin

[[agenda]]
==== Agenda

* Action Items from Post Mortem
** Lithium Release Planning
** When to pitch in?
**
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/Simultaneous_Release:Lithium_Release_Plan
**
https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Documentation_Group:Lithium_Project_Documentation_Requirements
* Workshop on technical comm conference in OpenDaylight

[[for-future-meetings]]
===== For future Meetings

* Prioritize and assign action items
* Git/gerrit training?
** Using git and gerrit from windows
* Talk to Mathieu about the sdndocs toolchain
** It's not checked in to ODL servers

[[possible-lithium-action-items]]
==== Possible Lithium Action Items

_Need to be prioritized and assigned_

* Copy and summarize the PPA in the wiki (Colin)
* Tools & Infra
** Make/enhance wiki tutorial for documentation process
** Translate Mathieu video to text as part of this
** Work on a process that will work for our current community
*** Mathieu's instructions seemed more complex than others
*** Can we streamline it?
*** Review + Commit vs. just Commit
*** Work this out as part of future git/gerrit training
** No steps for windows
*** Ask Ryan Moats to help? Maybe also Rob Dolin or Ivan Wood at MS?
*** Git review doesn't work on windows, or only works
*** Should be able to get it working on windows via cygwin
* Make sure we get a docs contact from each project
** Make a calendar of when to poke people
** To some degree, it's our responsibility to make sure projects are
doing the right thing
* Make templates for documentation types
** Also style guide
** MSTP?
** https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/General_Style_Guidelines
* When to reach out to projects to help figure out docs plans?
* Review OpenStack and other projects for ideas?
* Review and edit the documentation that is unlikely to change for
Lithium
* Establish a process/template for release notes per-project
* Figure out how to track progress on documentation? Google sheet?

[[notes]]
===== Notes

* Reviewing Lithium documentation starts at M3 2/19/2015 to 3/19/2015
** Release isn't until 6/25/2015
* Need to get better at agendas
* Do we want to move to IRC to take notes?

[[odl-workshop-for-technical-writers]]
==== ODL Workshop for Technical Writers

* Two major technical writers orgs:
** STC (Society for Technical Communication)
** TWIN (Technical Writers of INdia)
* Submitted an abstract to do a workshop on OSS documentation
* In Bangalore in March 2015
* Recruit volunteer writers
* Hoping the abstract gets selected

[[wednesday-1119-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 11/19, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees*: Phylis, Manny, Sujatha, Moi, Divya, Sujatha, Mathieu, and
Phil.

We discussed the Lithium doc requirements put together by Colin and
approved by the steering
committee—https://wiki.opendaylight.org/view/CrossProject:Documentation_Group:Lithium_Project_Documentation_Requirements

Action item: Mathieu asked folks to vote on whether to add Colin and
Sujatha as doc project committers by the end of day Wednesday, 11/19. To
do so, respond to Mathieu's email (sent 11/18).

Location:

* WebEx recording:
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=0bdcf2e833aa4ad7a4c6cbc6c509d923
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

[[wednesday-1112-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 11/12, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees*: Phylis, Manny, Sujatha, Moi, Divya, Sujatha, and Colin.

We held a post project assessment of the Helium documentation effort,
where we covered:

* the things that worked well
* the things that didn't work well
* improvements we can make to the documentation process for the Lithium
and subsequent releases of ODL

Location:

* WebEx recording:
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=77840ea9d74647968939b5855c2744a5
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

[[wednesday-1015-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 10/15, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

*Attendees*: Phylis, Manny, Sujatha, Moi, and Colin.

* Need a committer meeting for Documentation group to vote for new
committers: Send a mail to all committers with a list of people as
nominations. Need a minimum of 5 people to vote for this change.
Responsibilities of a committer are to review docs and merge topics in
Gerrit.

* Forking the Docs repo for Lithium: The docs repository is to be forked
so that the new master is Lithium documentation.

* Lessons Learned for Helium Doc Release: Lessons learned for Helium doc
release is scheduled after two weeks.

* Good documentation needed for developers to author docs: Mediawiki
needs good topics on how to get started to create documentation for
OpenDaylight. The information is present in the wiki, but it needs to be
organized and presented in a better way.

* Docbook accepts only limited ASCIIDOC tags: A major problem for Helium
was build failures due to usage of unsupported ASCIIDOC tags.
Documentation is required for a list of accepted ASCIIDOC tags and those
which are not accepted.

*Action Items*

* *Mathieu* to fork the documentation repo.
* Committer email to be sent by either *Sujatha* or *Moi* to doc list to
ask for representations.
* How to do documentation wiki needs to be cleaned up. More discussion
to be required on this. *Manny* volunteered for a little cleaning up.
* Lessons learned postponed to 10/29. All writers are requested to bring
in their insights for the meeting.

Location:

* WebEx:
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/j.php?MTID=m620354216ac4980df2223f17223a650d

[[wednesday-813-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 8/13, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

Main topics:

* Progress
* Who is working on what
* Tool usage

Location:

* WebEx:
https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?J=201282272&PW=NMjllOTFmMmQ4
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

[[wednesday-86-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 8/6, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

There is a release meeting at 8:30 Pacific, so this meeting will need to
be short again. Main topics:

* Templates
* How to do reviews
* Who wants to work on what
* Tool usage/instructions

Location:

* WebEx:
https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?J=201282272&PW=NMjllOTFmMmQ4
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

[[wednesday-729-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 7/29, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

There is an M4 milestone meeting at 8:30 Pacific, so this meeting will
need to be short. Let’s focus on:

* Getting final outlines for Mathieu to post to Maven
* Instructions for people to add content
* Dates for delivery

Location:

* WebEx:
https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?J=201282272&PW=NMjllOTFmMmQ4
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

WebEx Recording:
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=42c0bbd4c7a1425c95413a4f0a2a3626

MeetBot Minutes:
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2014/odl_docs/opendaylight-docs-odl_docs.2014-07-30-15.00.html

[[wednesday-723-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 7/23, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

Tentative agenda

* Previous actions
* Project status
** Toolchain Status
** Release Plan/Content Structure
** Assignments
* Other agenda items

Location:

* WebEx:
https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?J=201282272&PW=NMjllOTFmMmQ4
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

WebEx Recording:
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=e2efa164e9a24cf489ac0d1aa978063e

MeetBot Minutes:
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2014/odl_docs/opendaylight-docs-odl_docs.2014-07-23-15.00.html

[[wednesday-716-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 7/16, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

Tentative agenda

* Previous actions
* Project status
** Toolchain Status
** Release Plan/Content Structure
** Assignments
* Other agenda items

Location:

* WebEx:
https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?J=201282272&PW=NMjllOTFmMmQ4
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

WebEx Recording:
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=9313f2b118da4725a97a4276502ed162

MeetBot Minutes:
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2014/odl_docs/opendaylight-docs-odl_docs.2014-07-16-14.59.html

[[thursday-710-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Thursday, 7/10, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

Tentative agenda

* Previous actions
* Project status
** Toolchain Status
** Release Plan/Content Structure
** Assignments
* Other agenda items

Location:

* WebEx:
https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?J=201282272&PW=NMjllOTFmMmQ4
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

WebEx Recording:
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=2e8c9a5250cb44cd9ddfa45abebd0796

MeetBot Minutes:
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2014/odl_docs/opendaylight-docs-odl_docs.2014-07-10-15.01.html

[[thursday-625-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Thursday, 6/25, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

Tentative agenda

* Previous actions
* Project status
** Toolchain Walkthrough
** Release Plan/Content Structure
** Assignments
* Other agenda items

Location:

* WebEx:
https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?J=201282272&PW=NMjllOTFmMmQ4
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

MeetBot Minutes:
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2014/odl_docs/opendaylight-docs-odl_docs.2014-06-26-15.00.html

WebEx Recording (including Walkthrough):
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=cda2e8fe15b1428984245928792db716

[[wednesday-618-800-amusa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 6/18, 8:00 AM(USA Pacific)

Tentative agenda

* Previous actions
* Project status
** Toolchain setup
** Release Plan/Content Structure
** Assignments/Recruiting
* Other agenda items

Location:

* WebEx:
https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?J=201282272&PW=NMjllOTFmMmQ4
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

MeetBot Minutes:
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2014/odl_docs/opendaylight-docs-odl_docs.2014-06-18-15.02.html

[[friday-613-1000-amusa-pacific]]
=== Friday, 6/13, 10:00 AM(USA Pacific)

Tentative agenda

* Previous actions
* Project status
** Toolchain setup
** Release Plan/Content Structure
** Assignments/Recruiting
* Other agenda items

Location:

* WebEx:
https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?J=201282272&PW=NMjllOTFmMmQ4
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

[[friday-66-1000-amusa-pacific]]
=== Friday, 6/6, 10:00 AM(USA Pacific)

Tentative agenda

* Previous actions
* Project status
** Toolchain setup
** Release Plan/Content Structure
** Schedule
** Doc Guidelines
* Other agenda items

Location:

* WebEx:
https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?J=201282272&PW=NMjllOTFmMmQ4
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

[[friday-530-1000-amusa-pacific]]
=== Friday, 5/30, 10:00 AM(USA Pacific)

Tentative agenda

* Actions from last meeting
* Project status
** Toolchain setup
** Release Plan/Content Structure
** Schedule
** Doc Guidelines
* Other agenda items

Location:

* WebEx:
https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?J=201282272&PW=NMjllOTFmMmQ4
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

[[friday-523-1000-amusa-pacific]]
=== Friday, 5/23, 10:00 AM(USA Pacific)

Tentative agenda

* Actions from last meeting
* Project status
** Toolchain setup
** Release Plan/Content Structure
** Schedule
** Doc Guidelines
* Other agenda items

Location:

* WebEx:
https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?J=201282272&PW=NMjllOTFmMmQ4
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

MeetBot Minutes:
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2014/odl_docs/opendaylight-docs-odl_docs.2014-05-16-17.01.html

[[friday-515-1000-amusa-pacific]]
=== Friday, 5/15, 10:00 AM(USA Pacific)

Tentative agenda

* Actions from 5/1 meeting
* Project status
** Toolchain setup
** Release Plan/Content Structure
** Schedule
** Doc Guidelines
* Other agenda items

Location:

* WebEx:
https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?J=201282272&PW=NMjllOTFmMmQ4
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

MeetBot Minutes:
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2014/odl_docs/opendaylight-docs-odl_docs.2014-05-16-17.01.html

WebEx Recording:
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=cb8b5dd8f1844c14aac0418d965cd963

[[wednesday-57-noon-usa-pacific]]
=== Wednesday, 5/7, Noon (USA Pacific)

Tentative agenda

* Actions from last meeting
* Project status
** Toolchain setup
** Release Plan/Content Structure
** Schedule
** Doc Guidelines
* Other agenda items

Location:

* WebEx:
https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?J=201282272&PW=NMjllOTFmMmQ4
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

*Note:* Not enough folks showed up so we'll reschedule for next week.

[[thursday-51-500-pm-usa-pacific]]
=== Thursday, 5/1, 5:00 PM (USA Pacific)

Tentative agenda

* Actions from last meeting
* Project status
** Toolchain setup
** Content structure
** Establish and propose ODL documentation guidelines
** Design docs/templates
* Other agenda items

Location:

* WebEx:
https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?J=201282272&PW=NMjllOTFmMmQ4
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

Meetbot Minutes:
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2014/odl_docs/opendaylight-docs-odl_docs.2014-05-02-00.05.html

[[thursday-424-500-pm-usa-pacific]]
=== Thursday, 4/24, 5:00 PM (USA Pacific)

Tentative agenda

* Actions from last meeting
* Project status
** Toolchain setup
** Content ownership
** Establish and propose ODL documentation guidelines
** Design docs/templates
* Other agenda items

Location:

* WebEx:
https://cisco.webex.com/cisco/j.php?J=201282272&PW=NMjllOTFmMmQ4
* IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

MeetBot Minutes:
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2014/odl_docs/opendaylight-docs-odl_docs.2014-04-25-00.01.html

WebEx Recording:
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=f90e3c2393e94cae922ad1f3f225427c

[[tue-415-500-pm-usa-pacific]]
=== Tue, 4/15, 5:00 PM (USA Pacific)

Tentative agenda

* Actions from last meeting
* Project status
** Toolchain setup
** Content ownership
** Design docs/templates
* Other agenda items

Location: IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

MeetBot Minutes:
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2014/opendaylight-docs.2014-04-16-00.00.html

[[tue-48-500-pm-usa-pacific]]
=== Tue, 4/8, 5:00 PM (USA Pacific)

Tentative agenda

* Intros for any new folks
* Actions from last meeting
* Project status
** Project proposal going to Creation Review
** Toolchain setup
** Content ownership
* Other agenda items

Location: IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

MeetBot Minutes:
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2014/opendaylight-docs.2014-04-09-00.01.html

[[tue-41-500-pm-usa-pacific]]
=== Tue, 4/1, 5:00 PM (USA Pacific)

Tentative agenda:

* Welcome and intros
* Actions from last meeting
* Professional Quality Documentation project
** Status of project proposal
** Tooling update
* Recruiting additional volunteers
* Other agenda items

Location: IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

MeetBot Minutes:
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2014/opendaylight-docs.2014-04-02-00.01.html

[[tue-325-500-pm-usa-pacific]]
=== Tue, 3/25, 5:00 PM (USA Pacific)

Tentative agenda:

* Welcome and intros
* Actions from last meeting
* Professional Quality Documentation project
** Status of project proposal
* Efforts around the Hackfest 3/27-3/28 in Napa, CA
* Recruiting additional volunteers
* Other agenda items

Location: IRC: freenode.net #OpenDaylight-docs

MeetBot Minutes:
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2014/opendaylight-docs.2014-03-26-00.00.html

[[thu-320-900-am-usa-pacific]]
=== Thu, 3/20, 9:00 AM (USA Pacific)

Agenda:

* Welcome and intros
* Housekeeping
** Requesting email listserv(s)
* Various maturity of documentation
** Wiki pages
** Professional quality documentation
** Automated documentation
* Next steps
** Professional quality documentation project ?
** Recruiting more people to documentation group
* Anything else?

MeetBot Minutes:
https://meetings.opendaylight.org/opendaylight-docs/2014/opendaylight-docs.2014-03-20-16.00.html

[[tue-311-400-pm-usa-pacific]]
=== Tue, 3/11, 4:00 PM (USA Pacific)

Notes:

* Doc Books is needed for generating professional-looking documentation
(ePub, PDF, HTML) but XML authoring is challenging
* ASCII Doc is very similar to MediaWiki formatting
* Ideally, authoring can be done in ASCII Doc and then can be run
through a tool chain to generate Doc Books
* In OpenStack, it was useful to be able to submit a doc bug when
reading docs
* First step: Setting-up pipeline
* Eventually: put 301 redirects on wiki pages
* Paul will set-up an IRC area for the group to get together

Recording:
https://cisco.webex.com/ciscosales/lsr.php?RCID=6e3f6c9f6e164c63b273faf6b5871e2c

[[participants]]
== Participants

The below people have participated in one or more meetings:

* Andrew Kim
* Colin McNamara
* Greg Saunders
* Nan Zhou
* Paul Zimmerman
* Rob Dolin
* Sean Roberts

(Sorted alpha by first name)
